Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
Master Directions on Fraud Risk Management in Regulated Entities (REs), 2024 
[Master Directions on Fraud Risk Management in REs were issued on July 15, 2024] 
Q.1 The Master Directions on Fraud Risk Management inter alia  require 
Regulated Entities (REs) to constitute a Special Committee of the ‘ Board for 
Monitoring and Follow-up of cases of Frauds ’ (SCBMF) or a ‘Committee of the 
Executives’ (CoE), as the case may be. What should be the threshold amount of 
fraud for placing the cases before such Committee?  
Ans: As mentioned under Chapter II of the Master Directions, the  coverage and 
periodicity of reviews conducted by SCBMF / CoE shall be decided by the Board of 
the REs. Accordingly, the threshold amount of fraud cases to be placed before the 
SCBMF / CoE shall be decided by the Board of the REs, after duly taking into account 
the scale and complexity of their operations.  
Q.2 Is discretion available to REs for reporting of incidents of frauds to the Law 
Enforcement Agencies (LEAs), especially in case of small value frauds? Or 
whether banks are mandatorily required to report small value frauds to police 
under Master Directions on Fraud?  
Ans: Paragraph 5.1 of the M aster Directions requires Regulated Entities (REs) to 
immediately report incidents of fraud to Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs), subject to 
applicable laws.  Under Section 33 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 
(BNSS), a pe rson is not mandatorily required to report to LEAs information on 
commission of all offences, but only on those offences which are listed in that Section. 
REs are, however, advised to mandatorily report incidents of fraud involving an amount 
of ₹1 lakh or more to LEAs. 
Q.3 Whether REs are required to comply with judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court dated March 27, 2023 i.e. whether the compliance to Principles of Natural 
Justice is required to be adhered to in all cases of frauds or only in cases of 
advance related frauds?  
Ans: The requirement of ensuring compliance to the Principles of Natural Justice is 
applicable to all Persons / Entities and its Promoters / Whole- time and Executive 
Directors classified as fraud by the REs. In other words, this requirement is applicable 
in all cases of fraud classification which may have civil consequences (i.e. penal 
measures, caution listing) as observed in the Judgement of the Hon’ ble Supreme 
Court dated March 27, 2023 (Civil Appeal No. 7300 of 2022 in the matter of State Bank 
of India & Ors. Vs. Rajesh Agarwal & Ors.). 
  
2 
 
Q.4 Whether REs are  required to obtain the approval of Whole -time Director 
(WTD) for withdrawal of Fraud Monitoring Return (FMR), specifically, in cases 
where fraud classification of Persons / Entities etc. by the REs have been set 
aside by the Courts? 
Ans: In cases where wi thdrawal of FMR  / removal of name(s) of perpetrator(s)  is 
necessitated due to Court directions, REs may arrange to withdraw FMR / remove 
name(s) of perpetrator(s) immediately.  Such cases  shall subsequently  be placed 
before the official in the rank of WTD for information. 
Q.5 Whether the reporting requirement of frauds perpetrated in the group 
entities of the NBFCs (including HFCs) is applicable to all Group companies? 
Ans: The Master Directions require reporting of frauds perpetrated only in the G roup 
entities (subsidiaries / affiliates / joint ventures etc.) belonging to the reporting NBFCs 
/ HFCs. In other words, the reporting requirement is not applicable to the other entities 
in wider G roup to which the reporting NBFC / HFC belongs, which may not be 
subsidiaries / affiliates / joint ventures etc. of the reporting NBFCs / HFCs. 
Q.6 Whether filing / reporting of Monthly Certificate on Frauds, Monthly Central 
Fraud Registry (CFR) Certificate and Flash Report by banks shall continue? 
Ans: In terms of revised Master Directions, banks  are not required to submit such 
certificates / Flash Reports to RBI.