Nirav Modi case: Fresh CBI charge sheet against retired PNB official for disproportionate assetsPTI NEW DELHI, OCTOBER 02, 2020 16: ‘The CBI looked into the relationship between Gokulnath Shetty and Modi-Choksi during which it dug into the assets amassed by the retired deputy manager’The CBI has filed a fresh charge sheet against Gokulnath Shetty, the Punjab National Bank Deputy Manager who allegedly helpedModi and Mehul Choksiamassing disproportionate assets worth The agency has charged Mr. Shetty and his wife Asha Latha Shetty, a clerk in Indian Bank, under corruption charges for amassing assets worth over ₹4.28 crore during the period 2011perpetrated at the Brady House brposted, they said. Of the total assets, the CBI alleged they could not provide satisfactory explanation for assets worth disproportionate to their known sources of income.The CBI looked into the relationship between Mr.Shetty and Modiduring which it dug into the assets amassed by the retired deputy manager, they said. The agency has registered a separate FIR in November, 2018 against Mr. Shetty and his wife to look into their asIt emerged that against a genuine income of period, the Shetty couple had assets in their as well as family members’ names primarily in the form of flats in Mumbai, the CBI alleged.In its charge sheet filed before a Mumhas said that they had purchased a flat worth paid advance booking amount for three more flats in various localities of Mumbai and neighbouring areas.In addition, the agency also detecterecurring accounts of over After computing investments, income and expenditure, the CBI concluded that Shetty and his wife allegedly amassed disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 2.63 crore during 2011The CBI has already filed charge sheets against Mr. Modi and Mr. Choksi in 
 case: Fresh CBI charge sheet against retired PNB official for disproportionate assets OCTOBER 02, 2020 16:30 IST ‘The CBI looked into the relationship between Gokulnath Shetty and Choksi during which it dug into the assets amassed by the retired deputy manager’ The CBI has filed a fresh charge sheet against Gokulnath Shetty, the Punjab National Bank Deputy Manager who allegedly helpedMehul Choksi perpetrate ₹13,000-crore fraud, and his wife for amassing disproportionate assets worth ₹2.63 crore, officials said Friday.The agency has charged Mr. Shetty and his wife Asha Latha Shetty, a clerk in Indian Bank, under corruption charges for amassing assets worth over ₹4.28 crore during the period 2011-17 when the scam was being perpetrated at the Brady House branch of PNB in Mumbai where he was Of the total assets, the CBI alleged they could not provide satisfactory explanation for assets worth ₹ 2.63 crore, which were 2.38 times disproportionate to their known sources of income. d into the relationship between Mr.Shetty and Modiduring which it dug into the assets amassed by the retired deputy manager, The agency has registered a separate FIR in November, 2018 against Mr. Shetty and his wife to look into their assets. It emerged that against a genuine income of ₹72.52 lakh during a sixperiod, the Shetty couple had assets in their as well as family members’ names primarily in the form of flats in Mumbai, the CBI alleged. In its charge sheet filed before a Mumbai special court recently, the agency has said that they had purchased a flat worth ₹46.62 lakh in Goregaon while paid advance booking amount for three more flats in various localities of Mumbai and neighbouring areas. In addition, the agency also detected fixed deposits, bank balance and recurring accounts of over ₹75 lakh. After computing investments, income and expenditure, the CBI concluded that Shetty and his wife allegedly amassed disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 2.63 crore during 2011-17, they said. The CBI has already filed charge sheets against Mr. Modi and Mr. Choksi in 
case: Fresh CBI charge sheet against retired  ‘The CBI looked into the relationship between Gokulnath Shetty and Choksi during which it dug into the assets amassed by the The CBI has filed a fresh charge sheet against Gokulnath Shetty, the Punjab National Bank Deputy Manager who allegedly helped Nirav crore fraud, and his wife for s said Friday. The agency has charged Mr. Shetty and his wife Asha Latha Shetty, a clerk in Indian Bank, under corruption charges for amassing assets worth over 17 when the scam was being anch of PNB in Mumbai where he was Of the total assets, the CBI alleged they could not provide satisfactory ₹ 2.63 crore, which were 2.38 times d into the relationship between Mr.Shetty and Modi-Choksi during which it dug into the assets amassed by the retired deputy manager, The agency has registered a separate FIR in November, 2018 against Mr. ₹72.52 lakh during a six-year period, the Shetty couple had assets in their as well as family members’ bai special court recently, the agency ₹46.62 lakh in Goregaon while paid advance booking amount for three more flats in various localities of d fixed deposits, bank balance and After computing investments, income and expenditure, the CBI concluded that Shetty and his wife allegedly amassed disproportionate assets to the The CBI has already filed charge sheets against Mr. Modi and Mr. Choksi in 
Mr. Shetty, who is alleged to have played a key role in the ₹13,700-crore 
loan fraud while working as the deputy manager at PNB’s Brady House 
branch in Mumbai, was arrested in March, 2018. 
The scam surfaced when the companies owned by Modi and Choksi 
approached the Brady Road branch in January 2018, after the retirement of 
Shetty in 2017, seeking renewal of Letter of Undertaking (LoU) for payments 
to suppliers. 
Mr. Shetty, the then Deputy Manager at Brady House branch of the PNB, 
had continued in the same seat for seven years and issued fraudulent LoUs 
with “impunity”, the CBI has alleged. 
It is alleged that Mr. Shetty albeit a junior officer enjoyed clearance level 
much higher than his post which gave him full powers in Finacle, internal 
software used by PNB for verifying large transactions. 
It is alleged Mr. Shetty bypassed PNB’s core banking system Finacle and 
issued LoUs fraudulently, they said. 
The investigations revealed that messages for fraudulent LoUs were sent to 
overseas banks by misusing international messaging system for banking 
called SWIFT platform and without making their subsequent entries in 
Finacle thus bypassing any scrutiny of such funds in the bank, they said. 
An LoU is a guarantee which is given by an issuing bank to Indian banks 
having branches abroad to grant a short-term credit to the applicant. 
In case of default, the bank issuing the LoU has to pay the liability to the 
credit-giving bank along with accruing interest. 
The companies of Mr. Modi and Mr. Choksi took loans from banks abroad 
on the basis of these LoUs but did not repay them transferring the liability on 
PNB. 
It is alleged that senior officials of the PNB, including the then CEO and MD, 
did not implement the circulars and caution notices issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India regarding safeguarding SWIFT operation and misrepresented 
the factual position to the RBI. 
Reconciliation of CBS and SWIFT messages was not done despite repeated 
RBI circulars caution notices and questionnaires, the CBI has alleged. 
AMAR
UJALA,
Delhi,
2.10.2020
Page
No.
17,
Size:(13.31)cms
X
(18.08)cms.

Hyderabad: CBI books top GST official for graftAddThis Sharing Buttons      Hyderabad: The city unit of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a case against Hyderabad GST Commissionerate Computer Section Superintendent for allegedly possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.In the FIR, the CBI said K Janardhana Rao joined the Central Excise Department as an Inspector in 1992 and worked in various commissionerates. He also worked as a Superintendent, Anti-Evasion, Hyderabad GST Commissionerate, from November 2017 to August 2020. He and his wife Sailaja are both income tax assessees and his source of income is salary. The couple was filing income tax returns. She declared income from profession and business, tuition, rental, agricultural and other sources in tax returns.According to the FIR, reliable souand it was suspected that she projected these sources of income to authorities with an ulterior motive to disguise the illsaid Rao allegedly indulged in coplaces, disproportionate to his known sources of income. Information revealed that the accused allegedly acquired movable and immovable properties in his and his wife’s names. The amount of disproportionate assworks out to Rs 1.27 crore, amounting to about 65.40 per cent of disproportionate assets with reference to their income, according to the FIR.
 By TelanganaToday  |  Published: 2nd Oct 2020Hyderabad: CBI books top GST official for graftThe city unit of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a case against Hyderabad GST Commissionerate Computer Section Superintendent for allegedly possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.Janardhana Rao joined the Central Excise Department as an Inspector in 1992 and worked in various commissionerates. He also worked as a Evasion, Hyderabad GST Commissionerate, from November are both income tax assessees and his source of income is salary. The couple was filing income tax returns. She declared income from profession and business, tuition, rental, agricultural and other sources in tax returns.According to the FIR, reliable sources revealed that Sailaja did not impart any tuition and it was suspected that she projected these sources of income to authorities with an ulterior motive to disguise the ill-gotten wealth of her husband. The FIR further said Rao allegedly indulged in corrupt practices and amassed assets at various places, disproportionate to his known sources of income. Information revealed that the accused allegedly acquired movable and immovable properties in his and his The amount of disproportionate assets acquired by Rao during the check period works out to Rs 1.27 crore, amounting to about 65.40 per cent of disproportionate assets with reference to their income, according to the FIR. 
2nd Oct 2020  11:46 pm Hyderabad: CBI books top GST official for graft The city unit of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a case against Hyderabad GST Commissionerate Computer Section Superintendent for allegedly possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Janardhana Rao joined the Central Excise Department as an Inspector in 1992 and worked in various commissionerates. He also worked as a Evasion, Hyderabad GST Commissionerate, from November are both income tax assessees and his source of income is salary. The couple was filing income tax returns. She declared income from profession and business, tuition, rental, agricultural and other sources in tax returns. rces revealed that Sailaja did not impart any tuition and it was suspected that she projected these sources of income to authorities with gotten wealth of her husband. The FIR further rrupt practices and amassed assets at various places, disproportionate to his known sources of income. Information revealed that the accused allegedly acquired movable and immovable properties in his and his ets acquired by Rao during the check period works out to Rs 1.27 crore, amounting to about 65.40 per cent of disproportionate 
Printed from
CBI nabs railway employee for accepting bribe of Rs
30,000
Mumbai Mirror / Oct 2, 2020, 06.00 AM IST
REPRESENTATIONAL IMAGE
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a Central Railway official employee for allegedly demandingand accepting a bribe of Rs 30,000 from a private firm employee for ensuring the quick delivery of 30,000 pieces ofscraps allocated to it, the agency said on Thursday.   The accused, a senior inspector of Store Account, Mumbai Division, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminu S(CST), Mumbaiwas nabbed on a complaint to the agency by the firm’s employee.   The agency has registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the accused.   “It was alleged that the accused had demanded a bribe of Rs 30, 000 for smooth delivery of 30,000 pieces of scrapthat awarded to the firm of the complainant,” said an agency source.  The source said, “The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused red-handed while demanding and accepting bribe of Rs30, 000 from the complainant”.   The central investigative agency conducted searches at the residence of the accused later. “Searches were conductedat the residence of the accused.  The accused was produced before the competent court at Kalyan,” aCBI spokesperson said. Sources said the agencywill ask the accused if there were accomplices.