1 
 
 
 
 
IN THE WESTMINSTER MAGISTRATES’ COURT 
 
BEFORE 
 
DISTRICT JUDGE (MC) SAM GOOZÉE 
Appropriate Judge 
 
 
The Government of India 
 (Requesting State) 
V 
Nirav Deepak Modi 
(Requested Person) 
 
JUDGMENT 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Background & Chronology of Proceedings     Page 2 
The Challenges to Extradition       Page 4 
The Requests          Page 5 
Prima Facie case         Page 9 
Admissibility of evidence        Page 14 
Prima Face Case – CBI Request       Page 18 
Conclusions on Prima Facie Case – CBI Request    Page 31 
Conclusion on Prima Facie Case – ED Request     Page 36 
Prima Facie Case – CBI Supplementary Request    Page 36 
Conclusion on Prima Facie Case – CBI Supplementary Request  Page 42 
Extradition Offences        Page 45 

2 
 
Human Rights Challenges – Article 6 ECHR     Page 53 
Conclusions Article 6 Challenge       Page 58  
Human Rights Challenges – Article 3 ECHR & s.91 EA 2003   Page 61 
Conclusions Article 3 Challenge       Page 74 
Conclusions – s.91 EA 2003.        Page 79 
Procedural Requirements and Decision      Page 80 
 
              
 
Background and Chronology of proceedings 
 
1. This is an extradition request submitted by the Government of India, the Requesting 
State(“GOI”) for the extradition of Nirav Deepak Modi, the Requested Person (NDM). 
The request is governed by the Provisions of Part 2 of the Extradition Act 2003 (“EA 
2003”). India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003 
(Designation of Part 2 Territories) Order 2003. 
 
2. The return of NDM, an Indian national, is sought for the purposes prosecution. On 
the 27th July 2018, the GOI issued a request for the extradition of NDM. Initially, NDM 
was subject to two sets of criminal proceedings. The first set of proceedings are 
brought by the Indian Central Bureau of Investigation (“the CBI case”). The second 
set of proceedings are brought by the Indian Enforcement Directorate (“the ED case”). 
In short, the CBI case relates to a large-scale fraud upon the Punjab National Bank 
and the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. 
 
3. On the 11th February 2020, the GOI issued a further extradition request for NDM for 
two additional offences which he now faces as part of the CBI case. In short, these 
offences relate to allegations that NDM has interfered with the CBI investigation by 
causing the disappearance of evidence and intimidating witnesses.  
 
4. On the 27th July 2018, the GOI submitted a request for the extradition of NDM in 
relation to the ED case. On the 24th August 2018, the GOI submitted a request in 
relation to the first CBI case. Both requests were certified by the Home Office on the 
28th February 2019. On the 28th February 2019, the Secretary of State issued a 
3 
 
certificate in accordance with s.70(1) of the 2003 Act, certifying the requests were 
valid and had been made in the approved way.  
 
5. The RP was arrested on 19th March 2019. He appeared before an appropriate judge at 
Westminster Magistrates’ Court on the 20th March 2019. Consent was put and refused. 
The extradition hearing was opened and adjourned. The RP was remanded in custody 
and has been in custody throughout the proceedings. 
 
6. In relation to the supplemental CBI request, on the 11th February 2020, the GOI issued 
a further extradition request for NDM for the two additional offences which NDM 
faces as part of the CBI request. On the 20th February 2020 the Secretary of State 
issued a certificate in accordance with s.70(1) of the 2003 Act, certifying the request 
was valid and had been made in the approved way.  
 
7. NDM was produced at Westminster Magistrates’ Court on the 12th March 2020 and 
arrested in relation to the further request. Consent was put and refused. The 
extradition hearing was opened and adjourned to be joined with the earlier requests. 
Again, NDM was remanded in custody. 
 
8. The full hearings took place before me over two weeks. Week commencing 11th May 
2020 and week commencing 7th September 2020. On the 3rd November 2020 I heard 
submissions on the admissibility of evidence and gave a written ruling in order to 
assist Counsel with their final submissions. I received final written submissions which 
were expanded upon orally on 7th and 8th January 2021. I reserved judgment until 
Thursday 25th March 2021. 
 
9. Clare Montgomery QC leading Ben Watson of Counsel represented NDM. Helen 
Malcolm QC leading Nicholas Hearn of Counsel represented the GOI.  
 
10. Throughout the proceedings NDM appeared by live link from HMP Wandsworth. This 
was at his request and an appropriate application was made on his behalf for a live 
link direction. This was not opposed by the GOI.  I was satisfied it was in the interests 
of justice. NDM did not give evidence at the extradition hearing. I was satisfied he was 
able to fully participate in these proceedings. I am very grateful to HMP Wandsworth 
for providing the necessary resources to facilitate live link production at every stage of 
the extradition hearing.  
 
4 
 
11. I will say from the outset that in the course of these proceedings, in addition to the 
core bundle, authorities bundles and extensive written submissions, I received 16 
volumes of evidence and information from the GOI and 16 bundles of expert reports 
and defence evidence. A total of 32 lever arch folders of documents, which I have 
considered. I do not intend to summarise all the evidence that has been provided to 
me but just the evidence which I consider relevant and probative to the challenges and 
issues I must determine. It does not mean I have not considered all the evidence and 
documents submitted by the parties.  
 
12. Unlike the evidence from the Defence, the evidence produced by the GOI in the case, 
through no fault of Counsel, was poorly presented and very difficult to navigate. 
Observations I note were similarly made by the Senior District Judge (Magistrates’ 
Courts) in Mallya. I hope the GOI take these observations on board in relation to 
future requests. I am indebted to Counsel for both the GOI and NDM, the CPS and 
NDM’s solicitors for the considerable time spent providing me with indexes and 
schedules to assist me, as well as attending at Court to update physical bundles. 
 
 
The Challenges to extradition 
 
13. Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson raise the following issues to persuade the court not 
to grant the requests:  
i. whether they are extradition offences (s.137 of the 2003 Act) 
ii. whether there is a prima facie case -  whether there is evidence which would 
be sufficient to make a case requiring an answer by NDM if the proceedings 
were the summary trial of an information against him (section 84 of the 2003 
Act) 
iii. whether extradition is compatible with the NDM’s Convention rights, in 
particular Articles 3 and 6 (section 87 of the 2003 Act)  
iv. Oppressive due to NDM’s mental health (section 91 of the 2003 Act)  
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
The Requests 
 
The CBI case 
 
14. On the 29th January 2018, the CBI received a written complaint from Mr Avneesh 
Nepalia. Mr Nepalia is the Deputy General Manager of the Punjab National Bank 
(“PNB”). The PNB is a major Indian Bank which is majority owned by the Indian 
Government. Mr Nepalia, on behalf of PNB, alleged that the Bank had been the victim 
of a large-scale fraud perpetrated by NDM, a number of named associates and staff 
members at the PNB. The allegations centre around a number of NDM’s firms and 
their fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by PNB known as “Letters of 
Undertaking” (“LOUs”).  
 
15. The LOUs are a form of bank guarantee which facilitate foreign transactions. When a 
Bank issues an LOU on behalf of a customer, it allows the customer to obtain credit 
from a foreign bank. Mr Nepalia explained that the bank had discovered that NDM’s 
firms had fraudulently obtained a number of LOUs. The LOUs had been issued by two 
officials at PNB named Mr Gokulnath Shetty and Mr Hanumant Kharat. Mr Nepalia 
explained that he believed the LOUs had been issued fraudulently because (i) the 
appropriate procedures had not been followed (ii) appropriate documentation had not 
been obtained (iii) the LOUs had not been recorded with entries in the bank’s system 
and (iv) the LOUs had been issued for the payment of import bills but were not in fact 
used for that purpose. 
 
16. In his initial complaint, Mr Nepalia described that 8 LOUs had been fraudulently 
issued to NDM’s firms. He estimated at the time of his complaint that the fraudulent 
activity had resulted in a loss to PNB of INR 280.70 crores (approx. USD 44m). 
 
17. On the 23th February 2018, Mr Nepalia again wrote to the CBI. He informed them 
that further investigations by the bank had revealed that, in fact, 150 fraudulent LOUs 
had been issued to NDM’s firms. The cumulative sum of the LOUs was INR 6498.20 
crores (USD 1015.35m). The companies to which the LOUs had been issued are as 
follows (also referred to in defence submissions as the “3P partnership companies”) 
 
i. M/s Diamond R US (issued with LOUs amounting to INR 2210.61 crores) 
6 
 
ii. M/s Solar Exports (issued with LOUs amounting to INR 2152.88 crores) 
iii. M/s Stellar Diamonds (issued with LOUs amounting to INR 2134.71 crores) 
 
18. There is no dispute these companies are part of NDM’s Firestar Group.  
 
19. An investigation was subsequently launched by the CBI and the CBI allege the 
following facts: 
i. M/s Diamond R US had a current account with PNB. Documents submitted to 
the PNB confirmed that initially the partners were NDM and Mehul Choksi. 
Subsequently PNB was informed about a change in constitution of the firm. 
The new partnership deed confirmed that the partners were NDM (90%), 
ANM Enterprises Ltd (5%) and NDM Enterprises Ltd (5%). 
ii. M/s Solar Exports had a current account with PNB. Documents submitted to 
the bank confirmed that the partners in the firm were “Nirav Family Trust” 
and “Nirav Modi Family Trust”. M/s Stellar Diamonds had a current account 
with PNB. Documents submitted to the Bank confirmed that the partners in 
the firm were “Nirav Family Trust” and “Nirav Modi Family Trust”.  
iii. PNB’s internal guidelines in relation to the issuing of LOUs require the 
transactions to be recorded in the “Core Banking System” (“CBS”) to ensure 
transparency and so that the bank can monitor its liabilities in respect of any 
LOUs that have been issued. 
iv. A number of PNB staff had conspired with NDM to ensure LOUs were issued 
to his companies without ensuing the companies were the subject to the 
required credit check, without recording the issuance of LOUs and without 
charging the required commission to the transactions. 
v. NDM appointed dummy partners in the firms in January 2016 without 
informing PNB. However, the firms always remained under the direct control 
of NDM. He continued to sign the Income Tax Returns and Balance sheets of 
these firms. 
 
20. As a result of the CBI’s findings, NDM was charged with offences contrary to Section 
120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (Criminal Conspiracy) read with Section 420 of 
the IPC (Cheating and Dishonestly Inducing Delivery of Property), 409 of the IPC 
(criminal breach of trust by public servant or by banker, merchant or agent) and 
7 
 
contrary to s.13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (Criminal Misconduct by a 
Public Servant). 
 
The ED case 
 
21. The Directorate of Enforcement (“ED”) is a law enforcement agency and economic 
agency responsible for enforcing economic laws and fighting economic crime in India. 
As a result of the CBI investigation a parallel investigation was instigated by the ED 
into offences of suspected money laundering of the proceeds of the fraud reported by 
PNB. The ED investigation was instigated on the 14th February 2018. 
 
22. The ED’s findings can be summarised as follows: 
 
i. NDM with his associate Mihir Bhansali and others, arranged for dummy 
partners to be appointed in respect of each of the firms said to be the recipient 
of the fraud upon PNB (namely, M/s Diamond R US, M/s Solar Exports and 
Stellar Diamonds). The individuals chosen to be dummy partners were paid a 
meagre cash sum and did not perform any genuine functions ordinarily 
associated with legitimate partners. The firms remained under the direct 
control of NDM. 
ii. The ED discovered that NDM had set up a number of overseas companies in 
Hong Kong and Dubai which received the proceeds of the fraud on PNB. 
Dummy directors / owners/ managers were also appointed in these 
companies, although the companies remained under the direct control of 
NDM. The companies were used for the circular rotation of diamonds, pearls, 
gold and jewelry at highly inflated values to give the impression that the 
companies in receipt of the LOUs issued by PNB were engaged in legitimate 
trade. 
iii. The ED investigation identified a number of ways in which the proceeds of the 
PNB fraud were diverted by NDM and his associates. These included, transfer 
of USD 50m to Firestar International Pvt Ltd, India as a “Foreign Direct 
Investment”, a transfer in excess of USD 50m into a US based jewelry rental 
company called “Bailey Bank and Biddle” owned by NDM, illegal payments 
and loads to NDM from Hong Kong and Dubai based companies under his 
control, purchases of property using proceeds of the PNB fraud that had been 
8 
 
channeled through multiple companies under NDM’s control and through 
accounts of close family members. Funds had also been transferred to various 
bank accounts held in the names of various entities and individuals in 
Switzerland, Singapore and other overseas jurisdictions, some of which had 
been identified and seized by ED.  
 
23. As a result, NDM was charged with an offence contrary to Section 3 of the Prevention 
of Money Laundering Act 2002.  
 
Supplementary CBI Request  
 
24. It is alleged that NDM conspired with others to remove original documents relating to 
the LOU applications from PNB bank premises to those offices of a law firm, Cyril 
Amarchand Mangaldas (“CAM”). CAM were misled into accepting the documents as 
they were informed that the documents they were receiving were not original 
documents. It is also said NDM conspired with others to move the dummy directors 
of the Dubai based companies (utilised in the PNB fraud) to Cairo where they were 
held against their will, pressured to sign false statements and deprived of their mobile 
phones and electronic devices which were subsequently destroyed. It is finally said he 
conspired with others to destroy a server in Dubai in which all the data relating to 
NDM’s companies was stored. It is also said that during a phone call on the 19th or 20th 
June 2018 NDM threatened to kill Ashish Lad. 
 
25. Consequently, NDM faces two further allegations which are categorized in Indian law 
as an offence under s.120B read with s.201 IPC – criminal conspiracy for causing 
disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender; an 
offence under s.201 IPC – causing disappearance of evidence of offence or fiving false 
information to screen offender and finally an offence under s.506 IPC – criminal 
intimidation to cause death.  
 
Extradition Offences: 
26. S 78(4)(b) EA 2003 requires me to decide whether the offences specified in the request 
are extradition offences. I will deal with this issue later in my judgment.  
 
 
9 
 
 
Prima Facie Case 
 
27. India is not designated pursuant to s.84(7) of the 2003 Act. Section 84 (1) Extradition 
Act 2003 requires me to decide whether there is evidence which would be sufficient to 
make a case requiring an answer by NDM if the proceedings were the summary trial 
of an information against him. 
 
28. In terms of my approach, I remind myself of the relevant passage in Devani v. Kenya 
[2015] EWHC 3535 (Admin) where Aitkens LJ analysed the correct approach to 
s.84(1): 
 
“ 47. In the case of a country to which s.84(1) EA 2003 applies, a three-stage process 
is involved once the DJ is satisfied that the request document itself establishes that 
the conduct alleged is criminal in accordance with the laws of the requesting state. 
The first stage, following the decision of the House of Lords in Norris v. Government 
of the United States of America, is to identify, for the relevant charge, the “essence of 
the conduct” which is alleged by the requesting state. Secondly, the DJ must 
determine, upon the assumption that the relevant conduct had occurred in the UK, 
whether that conduct would be an offence under the UK law. For this purpose, the 
requesting state will often produce “notional English charges” identifying the 
particular UK offence which is said to be constituted by the “essence of the conduct” 
alleged. Thirdly, the DJ must determine whether the requesting state has proved, on 
the basis of all admissible evidence (taking account of the admissibility rules set out 
in sections 84(2) – (4), s.202 and s.205 of the EA) whether there is sufficient evidence 
to substantiate the conduct alleged.  
 
48. In R v. Governor of Pentonville Prison ex Alves, the House of Lords held that 
under paragraph 7(1) of Schedule 1 to the Extradition Act 1989, which is in different 
terms to s.84 of the EA, the correct approach to be applied by a magistrate on an 
extradition request was to decide whether there was a case to answer, by reference 
to the well known test set out by Lord Lane CJ in R v. Galbraith. The same approach 
has been adopted in relation to s.84(1) of the EA: see, for example, the statement of 
Sir Brian Leveson PQBD at [16] of Ravi Shankaran v. Government of the State of 
India. 
10 
 
 
49. Putting the matter this way could be mildly confusing. Lord Lane identified the 
test in Galbraith as the one to be used by judges in criminal trials when they have to 
decide whether to accede to a submission of “no case to answer” at the end of the 
prosecution case. Under s.84(1) the DJ has to do the opposite: viz. decide whether 
there is a case to answer. Furthermore, it is now well established that in an 
extradition case to which s.84(1) applies, the court is required to have regard to all 
the admissible evidence before the court, including that of the requested person. In 
our view, the correct way to put the matter is to say that the DJ who has to decide 
whether there is a case to answer for the purposes of s.84(1) must determine whether, 
on one possible view of the facts, he is satisfied that there is evidence upon which the 
requested person could be convicted at a summary trial of an information against 
him, upon the basis of the national English charges. In other words, the DJ must 
apply the test referred to at the end of the celebrated passage in Lord Lane’s 
judgment in Galbraith at 1042, but with the additional gloss that, in deciding 
whether there is a case to answer, the DJ should consider all the admissible evidence 
before him, including evidence called on behalf of the requested person. 
 
50. For convenience we will call this “the prima face case test”. 
 
29. I also remind myself of the approach laid down in R v. G & F [2012] EWCA Crim 1756. 
In that case, the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division), Aitkens LJ summarized the 
approach as follows: 
 
“36. We think that the legal position can be summarized as follows: (1) in all cases 
where a judge is asked to consider a submission of no case to answer, the judge 
should apply the “classic” or “traditional” test set out by Lord Lane CJ in Galbraith. 
(2) where a key issue in the submission of no case is whether there is sufficient 
evidence on which a reasonable jury could be entitled to draw an adverse inference 
against the defendant from a combination of factual circumstances based on 
evidenced adduced by the prosecution, the exercise of deciding that there is a case to 
answer does involve the rejection of all realistic possibilities consistent with 
innocence. (3) However, most importantly, the question is whether a reasonable 
jury, not all reasonable juries, could, on one possible view of the evidence, be entitled 
to reach that adverse inference. If a judge concludes that a reasonable jury could be 
11 
 
entitled to do so (properly direct) on the evidence, putting the prosecution case at its 
highest, then the case must continue; if not it must be withdrawn from the jury”.  
 
30. My role is to consider whether a tribunal of fact, properly directed, could reasonably 
and properly convict on the basis of the evidence. I am not required to be sure of guilty 
in order to send the case to the Home Secretary. The extradition court must conclude 
that a tribunal of fact, properly directed and considering all the relevant evidence, 
could reasonably be sure of guilt.  
 
31. I accept submissions made on behalf of the GOI by Ms Malcolm QC and Mr Hearn 
that I am not required to exclude all Mr Modi’s various alternative theoretical 
possibilities and narratives; nor exclude his personal interpretation of the evidence, in 
order to find a prima face case has been established. As was stated in Mallya v. India 
[2020] EWHC 924 (Admin), to adopt such an approach would be to “truncate the 
test”.   
 
32. Put simply, following the test in Devani (supra) I must determine whether, on one 
possible view of the facts, I am satisfied that there is evidence upon which Mr Modi 
could be convicted. 
 
Notional UK Charges:  
 
33. First request – CBI Request – “Conspiracy to defraud” 
NIRAV DEEPAK MODI, you are accused in a category 2 territory of the commission 
of offences constituted by conduct which, had it occurred within the jurisdiction of 
the United Kingdom, would have constituted the following offences: 
 
1. That you, between the 1st September 2008 and the 30th June 2018, conspired 
with Neeshal Modi, Gokulnath Shetty, Manoj Kharat, Hemant Bhatt, Bechu Tiwari, 
Yashwant Joshi, Prafful Sawant, Vipul Ambani, Arjun Patil, Kavita Mankikar, Rajesh 
Jindal, Mohinder Sharma, Bishnubrata Mishra, Miten Pandya, Manish Bosamiya, 
Sanjay kumar Rambhia, Subhash Parab, Usha Ananthasubramanian, K. V. Brahmaji 
Rao, Sanjiv Sharan, Nehal Ahad, M/s Diamonds R US, M/s Solar Exports, M/s 
Stellar Diamond, Sanjay Prasad, Nehal Modi, Amit Magia, Sandeep Mistry and Mihir 
Bhansali, and others known and unknown to defraud the Punjab National Bank 
12 
 
(‘PNB’), by dishonestly causing and permitting the PNB to issue (1214) Letters of 
Undertaking (LOU) to the three accused NDM firms (being M/s Diamonds R US, 
M/s Solar Exports, M/s Stellar Diamond) as guarantee of loans in the form of 
Buyer’s Credit, by divers wrongful means including: 
 
i)) without there being in place any sanctioned credit limit for LOUs and/or any 
formal borrowing arrangements between the three NDM firms and PNB 
ii) without providing any or any sufficient cash margin against the LOUs 
iii) without paying the proper bank charges/commission 
iv) without complying with the proper requirements as to registration and 
recording of foreign letter guarantees within the PNB, including entry on the CBS 
v) on the basis that the sums thereby guaranteed were to be used wholly for the 
payment of legitimate suppliers; but where the funds obtained were in fact not 
wholly used for that purpose, but were dishonestly used to repay earlier loans 
and/or diverted to companies within Nirav Modi’s control and/or 
vi) without arranging funds to pay the amounts outstanding against 150 LOUs 
thereby causing wrongful loss to the PNB in the sum of INR 6805.24 crores 
(68,052.40 million), being the sum of 150 LOUs issued between 9th February 
2017 and 23th May 2017 amounting to INR 6498.20 Crores (64,982.00 million) 
plus interest and other charges paid under the LOUs by the PNB to the Overseas 
Banks which had extended Buyer’s Credit to the three accused firms. 
 
Contrary to section 12 of Criminal Justice Act 1987 
 
34. Second request – Ed Request – Conspiracy – money laundering 
 
2. That you, between 1st March 2011 and 1st March 2020, conspired with Mr. 
Neeshal Modi, Mr. Nehal Deepak Modi Mr. Deepak Kumar Modi, Mr. Shyamsunder 
Wadhwa, Mr. Gokulnath Shetty, Ms. Purvi Maiank Mehta, Mr. Maiank Mehta, Mr. 
Saju Poulose Parokaran, Mr. Aditya Nanavati, Mr. Hemant Bhatt, Mr. Subhash 
Parab, Mr. Mihir Bhansali, Mr. Dharmesh Bothra, M/s Radashir Jewelery Company 
pvt. Ltd., M/s Solar Exports, M/s Stellar Diamond, M/s Diamonds R US, M/s 
Firestar International Pvt. Ltd., M/s Firestar Diamond International Pvt. Ltd, M/s 
Nirav Modi Trust, M/s Firestone Trading Pvt. Ltd., M/s Mak Business Enterprises 
Pvt. Ltd. M/s Bentley Properties Pvt. Ltd., Ms. Ami Nirav Modi, M/s Neeshal 
13 
 
Merchandizing Private Limited, M/s Belvedere Holdings Group Ltd., M/s Nirav 
Modi Ltd., M/s Yanike 
Properties Ltd, M/s Diamond Holdings SA., M/s Central Park Real Estate LLC., M/s 
Pavilion Point Corporation, M/s Rhythm House Private Limited, M/s Pacific 
Diamonds FZE, M/s Fine Classic FZE and M/s Firestar Diamond FZE to conceal, 
disguise, convert, transfer or remove criminal property, namely the (direct or 
indirect) funds obtained by means of Buyer’s Credit guaranteed by 1214 Letters of 
Undertaking worth USD 1015.35 Million issued by the Punjab National Bank 
knowing those funds to represent in whole or in part the proceeds of criminal 
conduct. 
 
Contrary to section 1 of the Criminal Law Act 1977 and sections 327 and 
334 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 
 
35. Third Supplementary ED Request – Conspiracy to pervert the course of 
justice and perverting the course of justice (threats to kill Ashish Lad)  
 
NIRAV MODI, you are accused in a category 2 territory of the commission of 
offences constituted by conduct which, had it occurred within the jurisdiction of the 
United Kingdom, would have constituted the following offences: 
 
1. That you on divers days between 01.09.2008 and 30.06.2018 conspired together 
with Neeshal Modi, Gokulnath Shetty, Manoj Kharat, Hemant Bhatt, Bechu 
Tiwari, Yashwant Joshi, Prafful Sawant, Vipul Ambani, Arjun Patil, Kavita 
Mankikar, Rajesh Jindal, Mohinder Sharma, Bishnubrata Mishra, Miten Pandya, 
Manish Bosamiya, Sanjay Kumar Rambhia, Subhash Parab, Usha 
Ananthasubramanian, K. V. Brahmaji Rao, Sanjiv Sharan, Nehal Ahad, Sanjay 
Prasad, Nehal Modi, Amit Magia, Sandeep Mistry and Mihir Bhansali to commit 
acts tending and intended to pervert the course of justice, namely: 
 
(i) causing evidence relevant to a criminal investigation into a fraud committed 
upon the Punjab National Bank, to be removed from the premises of PNB, MCB, 
Brady House, Mumbai and concealed in the law firm Cyril Amarchand 
Mangaldas “CAM” with the intention of preventing that evidence being 
discovered by investigators. 
14 
 
 
(ii) interfering with witnesses relevant to the aforementioned investigation 
including by arranging for them to travel to, and remain in, Cairo, Egypt, where 
they were pressured to sign false statements. 
 
(iii) causing evidence relevant to the aforementioned investigation to be 
destroyed, namely a server in Dubai; and the mobile phones and electronic 
devices which were taken away from the witnesses in Dubai and Hong Kong and 
destroyed. 
 
Contrary to section 1 of the Criminal Law Act 1977 and common law 
 
2. That in June 2018 you did an act tending and intended to pervert the course of 
justice, namely made a threat to kill Ashish Lad, a potential witness in the CBI 
investigation into an alleged fraud committed upon the Punjab National Bank. 
Contrary to common law. 
 
Admissibility of evidence 
 
36. On the 3rd November 2020 I heard submissions from the parties in relation to the 
admissibility of evidence relied on by the GOI in these proceedings.  
 
37. Where a RS has to prove a prima facie case under section 84 of the 2003 Act, the 
evidence it relies on has to be admissible under English rules of evidence or fall 
within the admissibility provisions in section 84 of the Extradition Act 2003.  
 
Section 84 reads: 
 
Case where person has not been convicted 
 
(1)If the judge is required to proceed under this section he must decide whether 
there is evidence which would be sufficient to make a case requiring an answer by 
the person if the proceedings were the summary trial of an information against 
him. 
 
(2)In deciding the question in subsection (1) the judge may treat a statement made 
by a person in a document as admissible evidence of a fact if— 
 
15 
 
(a)the statement is made by the person to a police officer or another person 
charged with the duty of investigating offences or charging offenders, and 
 
(b)direct oral evidence by the person of the fact would be admissible. 
 
(3)In deciding whether to treat a statement made by a person in a document as 
admissible evidence of a fact, the judge must in particular have regard— 
 
(a)to the nature and source of the document; 
 
(b)to whether or not, having regard to the nature and source of the document and 
to any other circumstances that appear to the judge to be relevant, it is likely that 
the document is authentic; 
 
(c)to the extent to which the statement appears to supply evidence which would not 
be readily available if the statement were not treated as being admissible evidence 
of the fact; 
 
(d)to the relevance of the evidence that the statement appears to supply to any 
issue likely to have to be determined by the judge in deciding the question in 
subsection (1); 
 
(e)to any risk that the admission or exclusion of the statement will result in 
unfairness to the person whose extradition is sought, having regard in particular 
to whether it is likely to be possible to controvert the statement if the person 
making it does not attend to give oral evidence in the proceedings. 
 
(4)A summary in a document of a statement made by a person must be treated as 
a statement made by the person in the document for the purposes of subsection (2). 
 
(5)If the judge decides the question in subsection (1) in the negative he must order 
the person’s discharge. 
 
(6)If the judge decides that question in the affirmative he must proceed under 
section 87. 
 
(7)If the judge is required to proceed under this section and the category 2 
territory to which extradition is requested is designated for the purposes of this 
section by order made by the Secretary of State— 
 
(a)the judge must not decide under subsection (1), and 
 
(b)he must proceed under section 87. 
 
38. In this case the parties set out the 8 categories of material as follows: 
 
Category 1 – Affidavits from the investigating officers  
Category 2 – documentary material attached to the affidavits 
Category 3 – s.161 statements. 
16 
 
Category 3A – s.161 statements containing hearsay, or otherwise containing 
information apparently not within the witnesses’ own knowledge 
Category 3B – s.161 statements containing passages verbatim of other witnesses’ 
statements. 
Category 4 – statement purporting to exhibit documents without those 
documents appearing. 
Category 4A – documents not apparently exhibited by any witness 
Category 5 – Foreign language statements without original language copy 
provided.  
Category 6 – statement taken other than by s.161. 
Category 6A – statements in Category 6 containing hearsay, or otherwise 
containing information apparently not in the witness’s own knowledge 
Category 6B – statement in category 6 containing passages verbatim of other 
witness’s statements 
Category 7 – GOI narrative response document.  
Category 8 – material provided to investigation by Ashish lad 
 
39. It was common ground that the following categories of material were admissible under 
s.84 of the 2003 Act: 
 
i. Category 4 – Documentary exhibits - Statements purporting to exhibit 
documents without those documents appearing and documents not 
apparently exhibited by any witness. 
 
ii. Category 5B – foreign language statements not taken under s.161. 
 
iii. Category 6 - statements taken other than by way of s.161 – sworn statements 
made by witnesses in the context of the EDs investigation.  
 
iv. Category 8 – material provided to investigation by Ashish lad. 
 
40. In terms of the starting point for the consideration of the remaining material, in 
particular the admissibility of statements made under s.161 of the Indian Criminal 
Procedure Code, I took as my starting point the recent decision of the Divisional Court 
in Mallya v. Government of India [2020] EWHC 924 (Admin). In the appeal, 
Ms Montgomery sought to rely on the decision in Shankaran v India [2014] 
EWHC 957 (Admin) in support of her submissions on the admissibility of s.161 
statements. Ms Montgomery advanced those arguments on behalf of NDM seeking to 
distinguish NDM’s case from that of Mr Mallya. The Divisional Court determined that 
s.161 statements meet the s.84 Extradition Act 2003 criteria and I considered myself 
bound by that decision. I did make clear that I would have regard to paragraph 48 of 
the judgment, namely that s.161 statements “dealing with events that their makers 
17 
 
had not seen were inadmissible in so far as it was sought to rely on them as evidence 
of matters which their makers did not witness. It follows that they should be given 
no weight on those matters. However, there is no reason why the points they, (the 
witnesses) made on the documents could not be taken into account as informed 
explanation of or commentary on the documents, rather than as evidence of relevant 
facts”.  
 
41. I adopted the approach taken by the Divisional Court in Mallya. I found that the 
section 161 statements were admissible under section 84(2), (3) and (4) of the 2003 
Act.  
 
41. Turning therefore to the remaining categories of material: 
 
i. Category 1 - It was accepted by the GOI that the affidavits of the investigating 
officers cannot amount to admissible evidence of matters the officers did not 
witness. However, they are admissible in the prima facie exercise and can be 
taken into account as informed explanations of or commentary on the 
documents. 
 
ii. Category 2 – documentary exhibits attached to the affidavits – there was no 
challenge to the admissibility of this material. 
 
iii. Category 3 – statements made under s.161 of the Indian Criminal Procedure 
Code – in view of the decision of the Divisional Court in Mallya these 
statements are per se admissible pursuant to s.84.  
 
iv. Category 3B - statements under s.161 containing passages verbatim of 
another witness’s statements. This is a fraud case involving many witnesses 
who give evidence of very similar matters. Admissible per se and obviously 
weight of those statements will be considered alongside the totality of the 
evidence.  
 
v. Category 5A – statements taken from foreign language statements – I accept 
the GOI’s submissions that admissibility is governed by s.84 (4).  
 
18 
 
vi. Category 7 - GOI narrative response documents – agreed by the GOI that 
response documents are not admissible evidence in support of prima facie case 
but are admissible in terms of informed explanation and commentary. 
 
vii. Remaining categories, 3A and 6A containing specific admissibility issues 
I determined was too broad to provide a ruling that all statements within the 
category are either admissible or not admissible. The statements may be 
admissible per se but what weight is attached to that material can only be 
assessed in considering totality of the evidence.  There may be evidence within 
statements that is admissible in support of a prima facie case and part of a 
statement which may be inadmissible. I accepted Ms Malcolm’s submission 
that it would be inappropriate at this stage in relation to other categories of 
evidence to give a ruling which would necessarily apply to all documents 
within a particular category – that is not amenable to a blanket ruling that such 
documents are or are not, per se admissible. 
 
Prima Facie case – CBI case 
 
42. The s.161 statement of Dinesh Bhardwaj dated 14.04.2018. Mr Bhardwaj [ V1 / p 292-
297 & V8 / p 305 – 311] is the PNB Assistant General Manager. His statement provides 
the following relevant information: 
i. He explains within his statement how the provisions of LOUs operate within 
the PNB. He explains that the LOUs are issued by the Bank to another overseas 
bank on the request of a client of the Branch to guarantee the trade credit, also 
known as Buyers Credit being or to be granted to the same client by the 
overseas bank. He explains that Buyers Credit is obtained by a client from 
overseas bank, as they get the funds at competitive rates of interest than the 
interest prevailing in India.  
ii. He explains that buyers credit is governed by guidelines of the Reserve Bank 
of India and the Reserve Bank of India has issued circulars with guidance for 
availing buyers credit and monitoring arrangements for Banks. Internally, the 
PNB has issued loans and advance Circulars which deal with letters of 
Undertaking and how they are to be issued. 
iii. He explains that LOUs issued must be recorded on the banks records system. 
19 
 
iv. He confirms that M/s Solar Exports, M/s Stellar Diamond, M/S Diamonds R 
US and M/s Firestar Diamond International and M/s Firestar International 
Pvt Ltd all hold accounts with the PNB.  
v. He recalls that on the 16th January 2018, Yashwant Joshi a Manager at the 
Branch spoke to him about requests received for LOUs from M/s Stellar 
Diamond, M/S Diamond R US and M/s Solar Exports amounting to USD 
50583737.43 (IND Rs 323.74 crore). Mr Bhardwaj explains that in October 
2017 the Branch had issued 6 LOUs to the firms against 100% cash margin and 
that Mr Joshi should request a 100% cash margin before proceeding with the 
applications. Mr Bhardwaj is made aware that 8 other LOUs issued about a 
year previously to the same firms amounting to IND Rs 280 crore were 
maturing for payment on 25.01.2018 and they were not entered in the CBS 
system of the Bank and documents were not available in the Branch. 
vi. He identifies that the LOUs have been issued by Golkulnath Shetty who retired 
from the Bank on 31st May 2017.  
vii. He asks Mr Joshi to analyse whether further LOUs had been opened by Mr 
Shetty without entry onto the banks systems. 
viii.  Mr Bhardwaj is shown the LOUs and confirms that Mr Shetty had issued the 
LOUs to overseas banks namely Allahbad Bank Hong Kong, Axis Bank Hong 
Kong and Bank of India in Antwerp during 2017 up until his retirement on the 
31st May 2017. There is a total of 150 LOUs issued to Diamond R US, Solar 
Export and Stellar Diamond.  
ix. He confirms that the bank is not in possession of the required documentation 
for the LOUs from 2011 onwards, which indicates Mr Shetty had not obtained 
the required documents from the applicant companies.  He states that the 
LOUs were “unauthorizedly issued by him without any sanctioning limit and 
without any cash margin and thus the bank was exposed to wrongful loss and 
it was required to pay the funds to the overseas banks on the maturity dates of 
each LOU”.  
x. Mr Bhardwaj explains that thereafter the matter was handled by the Banks 
Head Office. He attended a meeting on the 26th January 2018 at which Nirav 
Modi’s brother Nehal Modi was present. On the same day Mr Bhardwaj states 
that he received a call from Nirav Modi trying to speak to one of the managers 
at the meeting. During the meeting Nehal Modi requested the Bank allow the 
firms to obtain Buyers’ Credit on the strength of the new LOUs and that they 
20 
 
will make efforts to arrange funds to meet the liabilities of the LOUs which 
would be due to payment on the 25th January 2018. The senior managers at 
the meeting explained that first the liabilities for the LOUs maturing at the end 
of the month needed to be paid. Nehal Modi explained he would revert back 
after speaking to his brother, Nirav Modi. 
xi. He was made aware thereafter that the Bank were referring a complaint to the 
CBI against the Nirav Modi Group of Firms and the accounts would be frozen. 
The complaint was filed with the CBI on the 29th January 2018. 
xii. On 3rd February 2018 all sanction credit facilities were recalled. 
xiii. Mr Bhardwaj was present at another meeting on the 8th February 2018 at 
which Nirav Modi was present. He accepted that they had obtained LOUs from 
PNB on behalf of M/s Stellar Diamonds, M/s Solar Exports and M/s Diamonds 
R US but claimed it was a facility available to them for 8 years which the bank 
had withdrawn abruptly. Mr Bhandwaj states that the Bank confirmed no such 
facility had been available, the Bank had been cheated and Nirav Modi was 
asked to produce documents / sanction orders of the Bank. 
 
43. In relation to documentation which should have been retained by Mr Shetty it is noted 
that the s.161 statement of Ravindra Hindelkar date 18th April 2018 March provides 
some explanation [ V1 / p.399 – 424]. He was employed by Firestar International Pvt 
Ltd who reported to Subhash Parab an employee of Nirav Modi. He was instructed to 
visit the PNB bank with documents pertaining to the LOUs and hand them over to 
Gokulnath Shetty. “ Gokulnath Shetty use to receive the original set and used to give 
an acknowledge copy (office copy) to me. Later after 4 – 7 days, Sh Subash Parab 
used to instruct me to take the banks original set of documents from Gokulnath 
Shetty and bring the same to Diamonds R US Office where I used to hand them over 
this copy to Sh Rahul Sisodiya, who will then file in our office records. I further state 
than when I asked Gokulnath Shetty as to why he was handing over the Banks’ 
original set back to me, he answered that Sh Subash Parab knows about it and I need 
not worry about the same”. Of note in his first statement dated 14th March 2018, 
Ravindra Hindelkar was instructed to shift documents relating to the three Nirav Modi 
firms to a firm of lawyers, CAM, Cyril Amarchand Mandaldas. There were 50 cartons 
of documents. He describes them all as original documents.  
 
21 
 
44. The s.161 statement of Rajendra Keshri dated 17.03.2018 [ v8/ p. 312 – 474 and v 12/ 
p 3-4] Mr Keshri  is the Chief Manager PNB Brady House Branch. In considering the 
Bank records, Mr Keshri confirms that the LOUs were not recorded appropriately 
within the bank’s system and cash margins were not obtained against the LOUs. He 
gives explanations within his statement dated 20th April 2018 that in relation to the 
eight LOUs/ Buyers credit funds relating to the initial complaint to the CBI on 29th 
January 2018, “the entire funds were used for settling the liabilities of earlier Buyers 
Credit and not for payment to the overseas suppliers”. 
 
45.  The s.161 statement of Sreekumar Menon dated 20.03.2018 [ v 1 / p. 316 – 325] sets 
out the process for obtaining LOUs and how LOUs should operate. Mr Menon is the 
Chief Manager of the Punjab National Bank, International Banking Branch. In 
summary his statement confirms that Buyers Credit is raised by an importer in India 
from a foreign based bank for making payment to the foreign based supplier / exporter 
for the import by the Indian importer. The foreign bank requires a Bank Guarantee 
from the importer’s Bank, for extending buyers credit and the guarantee is given in 
the form of an LOU by the PNB, assuring the foreign bank of payment of the amount 
along with interest on the due date. The importer in India submits the application for 
issuing an LOU along with the required documents (“quote of foreign bank, 
agreement, bills of lading / airway bills, bill of entry, invoices, packing list etc” ) and 
the details of the proposed import to PNB. After processing the application, the 
Branch Head of PNB approves an LOU by the bank on behalf of the importer, if the 
importer has sufficient credit limit with the bank. However, if the bank has not 
sanctioned a sufficient credit limit to the importer, the importer has to provide PNB 
110% of the LOU amount as a cash margin. The competent authority for the sanction 
of the LOU is the Branch Head of PNB. Once an LOU is sanctioned by the Branch 
Head, the officials in Forex Department of the Branch send a message through the 
“SWIFT Message” system to the concerned foreign bank. At the same time an entry is 
made in the CBS system of the PNB and a commission is charged to the importer for 
the issuing of the LOU. On the basis of the SWIFT message received from PNB, the 
foreign bank releases the amount of buyer’s credit to allow payment to be made to the 
foreign based supplier / exporter. The buyer’s credit is to be repaid to the foreign bank 
along with interest on a specified date. On the due date, if the importer fails to pay the 
amount, then PNB has to make the payment to the relevant foreign bank. In relation 
to how much commission was required to be collected by the bank for the issuance of 
22 
 
the 150 LOUs and whether the Branch has collected the commission in respect of those 
LOUs, he explains IND Rs 237.12 crore was required to be charged but only IND Rs 
7.76 crores was charged.  
 
46. The s.161 statement of Rajesh Sinha dated 20th April 2018 [ v 1/ p. 326 – 335] . He is 
a Chief Manager at PNB, and was part of the investigation team to ascertain how many 
LOUs had been issued at the PNB branch which had not been entered in the Core 
Banking Solution (CBS) system resulting in the non-creation of liabilities against the 
Nirav Modi Group. Following the investigation, it revealed that during the period 2011 
to 2017 a total of 1208 LOUs had been issued on behalf of the Nirav Modi Group which 
were not entered in the CBS system. Following the investigation he stated that “we 
came to the conclusion the bank had suffered wrongful loss of IND Rs 6498.18 crore 
on account of the 150 outstanding LOUs which were fraudulently issued from MCB, 
Brady House Branch without entering in the CBS system in the year 2017”.  
 
47. The s.161 statement of Supriya Sakhare dated 17th April 2017 [ v 1 / p.336 – 343]. She 
worked in the Foreign Exchange department of the Brady House Branch of the PNB. 
She explains that after Mr Shetty retired from the Branch on 31st May 2017, she was 
assigned a portfolio of imports which included sending SWIFT messages under to 
supervision of Yashwant Joshi. She was advised by Mr Joshi that M/s Diamonds R 
US, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds belonged to Firestar Group of Nirav Modi and 
the branch also managed the accounts of M/s Firestar International Pvt Ltd and M/S 
Firestar Diamond International Pvt Ltd. She explains that under instruction of Mr 
Joshi she issued 6 LOUs to Stellar Diamond, Diamond R US and Solar Exports from 
October to November 2017. She explained she had difficulty entering them onto the 
CBS system until 11th January 2018. She explains that she was not told by Mr Joshi 
that the firms were not having any sanctioned limit for LOUs. In relation to the first 
LOU she states a proposal note was put before Shri Bhardwaj by Yashwant Joshi which 
was approved and a 100% margin was to be taken. However, the remaining five LOUs 
were not sanction by Shri Bhardwaj. In December 2017 she was told by Mr Joshi that 
he had met with Nirav Modi and Vipul Ambani of Firestar Group and during the 
meeting he had been requested to continue opening LOUs on behalf of the three firms 
without entering them onto the CBS system as was being done earlier by Mr Shetty 
and the bank should not ask for 100% margin. As a result of hearing this she was 
worried about the 6 LOUs she had not been able to enter onto the CBS system. She 
23 
 
confirms that checks of the bank records in relation to LOUs issued to M/s Diamond 
R US, M/S Stellar Diamond and M/s Solar Exports that many had not been entered 
as liabilities on the CBS system “which is a must as only then the branch can monitor 
liability”.   
 
48. The s.161 statement of Jasmine Makwana dated 17th April 2017 [ v1 / p.344-351]. She 
also worked in the foreign exchange department. She also confirms that she was told 
that M/s Diamond R US, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds belong to Firestar 
International Pvt. Ltd and M/S Firestar Diamond International Pvt. Ltd and she was 
introduced to some employees of Firestar and meet with Mr Joshi. She confirms that 
in October and November 2017, 6 LOUs were opened by Ms Sakhare on behalf of the 
companies with 100% margin, but that was taken after the LOUs were issued. The 
LOUs were entered onto the CBS system on 11th January 2018 after earlier attempts 
were unsuccessful due to system errors. She also confirms that checks on the Bank 
records in relation to LOUs granted to the three companies for the period 2012 – 2017 
were not entered on the liability register through CBS system 
 
49. The s.161 statement of Rajesh Kumar Sinha dated 20th April 2018. He is the Chief 
Manager in PNB Audit Office. He was assigned to the Bank’s investigation into how 
many LOUs had been issued at the Brady House Branch which had not been entered 
in the CBS resulting in non-creation of liabilities and losses to the Bank. They looked 
at the banks records from 2011 – 2017. They confirms 1314 LOUs were issued to Nirav 
Modi’s firms of M/s Stellar Diamond, M/s Solar Exports and M/s Diamond R US. 
More specifically, in 2017 150 LOUs were issued without entry onto the CBS system. 
He also confirms that during the investigation they discovered that “no fund based or 
non-fund based facility was granted by MCB, Brady House Branch to these 3 firms of 
Nirav Modi Group who were maintaining only current accounts in the said Branch”. 
He states that if LOU facility is not sanctioned to a customer no LOU would be opened 
on request unless 110% cash margin and then only with approval. He finally states that 
the 150 LOUs issued without entry onto the CBS system in 2017 resulted in losses of 
IND Rs 6498.18 crore.  
 
50. The s.161 statement of Sreekumar Menon dated 8th August 2019, He sets out the 
results of the investigation leading to the discovery that between February 2017 to May 
2017 150 LOUs had been issued by Mr Shetty and other officers of Foreign Exchange 
24 
 
Department of MCB Brady House, Mumbai Branch on behalf of the three firms 
without entry onto the CBS system against which the firms had obtained Buyers Credit 
from overseas Banks. It was also revealed that Mr Shetty had “increased the maturity 
date of said LOUs for more than 350 days to grant undue pecuniary advantage to the 
said 3 firms and their partners and created liability on the Bank amounting to IND Rs 
6498.20”. He also confirms “the said 3 firms did not arrange the required funds in 
their accounts to re-pay the liabilities to the 3 overseas banks”.  
 
51. On the 22nd January 2018, the PNB wrote to each of the three companies in response 
to their request for issuance of buyer’s credit. The letters to the companies explain “in 
the absence of any sanctioned facility in your favour, you are requested to provide 
us the copy of the sanction, if any, available with you, as stated in your request. 
Meanwhile please arrange for cash collateral to the tune of at least 100% to enable 
us to look into your request”. [ v9 / p. 970 – 972] 
 
52.  The relevant extracts of the statements of accounts of M/S Stellar Diamonds, M/s 
Solar Express and M/s Diamonds R US are exhibited [v 9/ p. 904-942] and 
demonstrate that while obtaining LOUs from PNB, the firms had insufficient credit 
balance to provide the requisite cash margins and security.  
 
53. The notes of the meeting attended by Mr Bhardwaj and Nirav Modi on the 8th February 
2018 are exhibited [V 9 / p. 1870]. Nirav Modi accepted the issuance of the LOUs to 
m/s Stellar Diamond, M/s Solar Exports and M/s Diamond R US, contending that it 
was a facility available to them for at least 8 years and the Bank withdraw the facility 
abruptly.  PNB confirmed there were no approval or facility sanctioned by PNB and 
requested Nirav Modi to share copies of any such approvals.  
 
54. The three firms alleged to perpetrate the fraud upon PNB are M/s Diamond R US, M/s 
Stellar Diamond and M/s Solar Exports. The GOI rely on the following evidence to 
demonstrate the Nirav Modi was in fact in direct control of these companies: 
 
i. The charter documents for the companies were signed by Nirav Modi [ see 
references in GOI closing submissions on prima face case for extensive 
references to the evidence in the bundles] 
25 
 
ii. Balance sheets and indenture of partnership of the three firms submitted to 
the PNB for the opening of the current accounts were signed by Nirav Modi. 
iii. The statement of Mr Raghu Kothari dated 13th October 2018 confirms from the 
Diamonds R US bank accounts that Nirav Modi withdrew IND Rs 848 Crore 
to his personal accounts. 
iv.  In emails send by Nirav Modi on February 5th, 2018 to the Bank, Nirav Modi 
refers to the companies as “affiliated with me” He goes on to state that his 
ownership interests are limited to 5% [ v E / Tab 13 & 18] However, in 
subsequent emails, it is apparent that he refers to the companies generically 
as the “Nirav Modi” group and in correspondence with PNB has continued to 
express his willingness and responsibility to resolve the issues and liabilities 
relating to the three companies. An email dated 15th February 2028 he offered 
to place his flagship company “Firestar International Ltd” under the banks 
charge and to sell its shares and assets as repayment [ v 9/ p. 1876 – 1877 and 
1866 – 1887] 
v. Examples of statements of dummy directors appointed to the three firms. 
Oghadbhai Kalsaria in a statement dated 19th March 2018 [ v8 / p. 286 – 290], 
a farmer is approached together with 5 others to be paid modest amounts to 
sign documents as partners of the three firms and were given majority 
shareholdings. His statement also confirms that he was illiterate and was not 
aware of the consequences of signing cheques, partnerships documents or 
account opening forms. The indenture of partnership was executed by Nirav 
Modi.  
 
55. In terms of what the companies did with the buyers credit, it is clear from the s.161 
statement from Srekumar Menon dated 20.03.2018 the permissible purpose for 
buyer’s credit is to facilitate genuine import transactions into India. Buyer’s credit 
must be used for the import of goods. An LOU cannot be used to re-pay the liability of 
an earlier LOU. The exhibited PNB Circular No 131/2009 dated 19th October 2009 
regarding issuance of letters is exhibited. [ v 9/  p.  1342]. The s.161 Statement of Shri 
Keshri dated 20th April 2018 provides some detailed analysis of how the LOUs 
obtained by Nirav Modi’s firms were used to re-pay liabilities in relation to buyer’s 
credit obtained by the firms in 2016 and 2017 as opposed for genuine import 
transactions. The statement also confirms these were authorised by Gokulnath Shetty. 
 
26 
 
56. The s.161 statement of Satyendra Shukla dated 7th August 2018 [ v 9 / p. 950- 966] 
explains that he worked for one of the Firestar International Pvt Ltd group of 
companies managed by Nirav Modi’s brother, Neshal Modi. In December 2009 he was 
asked by Nishal Modi to work in the office of the company in Hong Kong or Dubai and 
he went to work for M/s Firestar Diamond FZE in Dubai as general manager. After 
moving to Dubai he recalls Hemel Shah, Hiren Tallor, Hresh Shah, Abhijeet Pawar 
and Jurian Matthews joining the company. He was responsible for visa processing. He 
describes that for other Dubai based companies, Mihir Bhansali appointed a 
consultancy firm to undertake visa processing. The group also had a company in Hong 
Kong in the name of m/s Firestar Diamond Ltd controlled by a friend of Nirav Modi’s 
brother. Initially Firestar Diamond FZE imported cut and polished diamonds from 
Hong Kong and also local purchases from UAE. They would sell the diamonds to local 
market as well as export to Hong Kong. He was directed by Sandeep Mistry who used 
to consult Mr Bhansali and Nirav Modi about any transactions. He worked for the 
company until 2013 before returning to India as instructed by Mihir Bhansali in order 
to set up a diamond cutting and polishing unit in Surat. In 2014 he was asked again 
by Mihir Bhansali to go back to Dubai and set up a jewelry manufacturing unit in 
Dubai for M/s Firestar Diamond FZE. He did this before returning to India. He 
explains that Mihr Bhansali is Nirav Modi’s cousin and he monitored all the jewelry 
operations of the Firestar group. Once again in 2016 he was asked by Mihir Bhansali 
to return to Dubai and join Firestar Diamond & Jewelry as general manager. However, 
Mr Shukla explains that in relation to other Dubai based companies of the Firestar 
Group he states they were “dummy companies which were set up by Nirav Modi in 
Dubai” through the same consultancy company appointed by Mihir Bhansali. He 
states “In these companies, there was no real business. Transactions were done just 
for the movement of funds as desired by Nirav Modi. Some of these companies are 
having branches also in UAE”. He lists the companies operating from Dubai. He also 
states that other employees of Firestar Group in India were also moved to Dubai, 
including Sandeep Mistry, Shallesh Mehta and Netajl Mohite. Their visas showed 
them as employees of the dummy companies and in fact as directors and shareholders 
of the dummy companies.   
 
57. Satyendra Shukla provided a second s.161 statement dated 8th August 2018. In this 
statement he explains that Mihir Bhansali had asked him to become manager in a 
similar complex structure of companies formed under the instruction of Mihir 
27 
 
Bhansali and Nirav Modi. Gradually Nirav Modi, Nehal Modi and Mihir Bjhansall, so 
that by the end of 2013, the managers / owners of the companies were most ex-
employees of Firestar Group. He describes the rotation of pearls and pearl jewelry 
between the companies. Communication regarding the functioning of the dummy 
companies was done on ‘panemail’ or ‘cricket’. He also describes a similar set up of 
companies in Hong Kong formed by Nirav Modi, which operated in a similar manner 
to the Dubai based companies.  
 
58. He explains after the investigation against Nirav Modi started, he and the other 
dummy directors decided to leave Dubai and return to India but Mihir Bhansali asked 
them all to wait as if they returned to India the government agencies may arrest them. 
Mihir Bhansalli left for the US and instructed them not to contact him. Nehal Modi 
took the mobile phones off all the dummy directors and destroyed them. Although Mr 
Sukra was not involved in the financial matters of these companies, he worked with 
the other directors and “came to know that huge funds were transferred to Nirav 
Modi and Deepak Modi”.  
 
59. Further statements from the dummy directors of Hong Kong based company who 
were part of the Firestar Group are provided by Nilesh Khetani in his s.161 statement 
dated 19th July 2018 [ v 11 / p. 188-197]. He states there were no genuine business 
transactions in the companies and the companies were being used for transferring 
funds generated “in the guise of sale – purchase / export – import of goods” he 
described the companies being controlled by Nirav Modi and Mihir Bhansali. He 
corroborates the setup of the companies in Dubai. He also explains that after the 
registration of the case by the CBI, Nehal Modi the younger brother of Nirav Modi 
took overall control of the affairs of the various companies. He was advised to leave 
Hong Kong for Cairo and their cell phones were destroyed.  
 
60. The s.161 statement of Nilesh Mistry dated 20th August 2018 [ v 11 / p. 206 – 210] is a 
junior account officer who handled accounting and maintained the sale/purchase 
transaction entries pertaining to import/export/local sale carried out within the group 
of companies based in Mumbai, Surat, Dubai and Hong Kong. He made accounting 
entries pertaining to local purchase as well as import/export of goods (diamonds / 
jewelry) within M/s Firestar Diamond International Pvt Ttd, Mumbai, M/s Neeshal 
Merchandising Pvt. Ltd, M/s Firestar Diamond Inc, M/s Brilliant Diamond ltd, Hong 
28 
 
Kong, M/s Eternal Diamond Co Ltd, Hong Kong, M/s Ajafee Inc, USA and M/s 
Fantasy Diamond Inc, Mumbai. He states all these companies were owed by Nirav 
Modi and his family members. He describes the account entries as “round tripping 
nature” between the dummy companies. He came across transactions where “round 
tripping funds” were transferred into personal accounts of Pruvi Modi, Nirav Modi’s 
sister. He also described how “round tripped funds” were also siphoned off within the 
Dubai based companies to Purvi Modi’s personal account. In March April 2018 when 
the CBI investigation commenced, he states he was instructed by Mandeep Mistry and 
Mihir Bhansali to withdraw money from the Dubai based group accounts of which he 
and others were namesake directors. This was handed to Sandeep Mistry. He also 
describes being threatened by Mihir Bhansali and Nehal Modi to go to Cairo. He 
questioned the round tripping transactions and was told by the Finance Manager “I 
don’t have to worry about these round tripping transactions”. He was told the 
Mumbai based Finance Team of FIPL/FDIPL companies were arranging loans from 
Punjab National Bank. Albeit hearsay, that fact is not actually in dispute.  
 
61. Further corroborative evidence is found in the statements taken as part of the ED case. 
 
62. Statement of Ashish Bagaria [ v 6(ii) / p. 137-147].  In June 2009 Mr Bagaria joined 
Firestone International as a data entry operator. In January 2011, he was transferred 
to Hong Kong. He was asked to sign some papers by Afditya Nanavati and it was 
explained he had become a director of Eternal Diamonds Corporation Limited. He was 
told that this was necessary as Purvi Modi was the owner of the company but she could 
not manage the affairs of the company as she was frequently travelling. He was also 
required to open a bank account. He confirms he never had any decision-making 
authority within the company. Having returned to Mumbai he was asked to return to 
Hong Kong in 2015 by Sandeep Mistry and Mihir Bhansali. He was tasked with 
“Diamond, Jewelry and Pearl Shipment” of six Hong Kong based companies including 
the company he was a director of. He also explains the companies were dummy 
companies used to import diamonds, effect sales between dummy companies before 
diamonds were exported again. He states each of the companies was in essence 
controlled by Nirav Modi. In March 2018 after the CBI investigation was launched, he 
explains Nehal Modi came to Hong Kong and informed the directors that the 
companies must be liquidated and they were to destroy their mobile phones. He was 
also placed under pressure to travel to Cairo but Mr Bagaria refused. 
29 
 
 
63. Ashish Lad provides a number of statements [ v 11 / p. 127 – 176 &  v 6(ii) ]  He joined 
Firestar Diamond Ltd in 2007 and worked in the accounts department. In 2012 he 
was transferred to the Dubai office. His role was to enter sales and purchase 
information into accounting software in relation to Eternal Diamond Corporation Ltd, 
Brilliant Diamonds Ltd, Tricolour Gems and World Diamonds Distribution. In 2013 
he was summonsed to Surat office of Firestar International. He was told he was 
required to become the owner of a Hong Kong based company named Sunshine Gems 
Limited. He was required to travel to Hong Kong to open a bank account. He was also 
asked to become owner of a further Hong Kong Company Unity Trading [ this is also 
corroborated in the statement made by Satyendra Shukla above, who details Ashish 
Lad as owner of this dummy company]. In both companies, Mr Lad confirms he had 
no decision-making authority. He also, like Satyendra Shulka, provides details of other 
similar companies which were opened with no employees other than nominal director 
/ owners. There was no legitimate trade by the companies. He confirms that Nirav 
Modi was the beneficial owner and controller of the Dubai and Hong Kong based 
companies. He also explains that in March 2018, Mihir Bhansali visited the directors 
in Dubai and warned them that if they go to India they will be arrested. They are told 
that if they co-operate they will be provided shelter and legal help. Mr Bhansali warned 
them if they returned to India the company will not help. Nehal Modi told them Dubai 
was not safe and they agreed to go to Cairo.  
 
64. Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson have made extensive submissions as to the 
alternative narrative of what occurred. In their submissions the only realistic 
possibility is that PNB’s lending was the result of ordinary commercial arrangements 
entered into openly, and therefore without deception, and that is the most realistic 
probability on the evidence. They submit there is no evidence anyone was misled. The 
evidence is overwhelmingly that anyone at the PNB who needed to know of the LOU 
arrangements between the bank and 3Ps did. PNB was very well aware, at the highest 
levels, of the arrangements. They submit the CBI case is an exercise in reverse 
engineering – taking as its starting point that there was fraud and then looking to find 
it. They submit the GOI have failed to consider the wider commercial context of the 
lending, its actual origins, the absence of any pattern of deception or secrecy or 
financial gain and the absence of any evidence that any funds derived from those 
arrangements were wrongly obtained by NDM.  
30 
 
 
65. Nirav Modi submits the PNB had provided the 3P partnership with a long established 
and largely unsecured LOU credit facility. It was operated in plain sight with on-going 
repayments and further borrowing. The defence identify the 6 OUs previously 
authorized by Jasmine Makwana and Dinesh Bhardwaj without a 100% margin being 
taken when the LOUs were issued. They also point to other LOUs being repaid when 
they fell due. When further buyer’s credit was sought on the 16th January 2018 and 
100% margin was insisted upon, it is submitted that the 3Ps replied by letter to Mr 
Bhardwaj stating “As explained to you, this is per the revolving buyers credit facility 
we have been enjoying with your bank for the last several years. Each amount has 
been paid through your bank to suppliers and each amount due has been repaid by 
us over all these years. Kindly do not delay in issue of the LOUs as this will result in 
cash crunch, buyer default in case of the nature of contract work done by us for them 
and [in] turn default in repayment of the buyer’s credit extended in February 2017” 
[ v E(2) / Tab 7]   
 
66. Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit that the PNB bankers were then negotiating 
with 3P since 22nd January 2018 and met with Nehal Modi on 25th January 2018. 
Negotiations continued including further correspondence between Nirav Modi and 
the PNB, including on the 13th February 2018 an email to PNB’s Managing Director 
Sunil Mehta, making further proposals for a structured repayment process “My intent 
is to honour all the obligations on my part, Firestar’s part and whatever the firms 
are liable to pay, while reserving our rights regarding your action”. [ v E(2)/ Tab 25]  
There were ongoing negotiations and attempts at finding a compromise solution up 
until 15th February 2018 when Nirav Modi emailed the PNB and the broader 
consortium of Firestar lenders “My intent is to cooperate fully with PNB and the 
consortium of banks, and sincerely request that value in FIPL [ Firestar 
International Private Limited] is not destroyed. FIPL has 2400 employees and has 
over the years built excellent relationships with suppliers and customers around the 
world….I once again request you obtain the repayment of your dues through a 
combination of the receipts from the three firms buyers and sale of FIPL / its assets 
and keep FIPL’s business intact until then” [v e(2) / Tab 25].Therefore it is submitted 
that although PNB filed its criminal complaint regarding the 150 fraudulent LOUs on 
the 13th February 2018 the Bank was already looking to negotiate a solution to what 
was in reality a commercial dispute initiated by the PNB refusal to issue LOU on the 
31 
 
same terms as it had before. The finance facility had been running for many years, 
signed off by numerous employees in the bank with repayments made on time by the 
3P. It was only when PNB simultaneously changed the terms of the lending and placed 
pressure on the other banks who had provided facilities to the wider group to 
withdraw lending and informed the CBO it had been a victim of fraud, the PNB created 
an immediate cash crisis for Firestar. As a result, Firestar International Ltd, Firestar 
Diamond International Limited and the 3P ceased to be going concerns.  
 
67. Although Nirav Modi has not given evidence at the extradition hearing, I received 
evidence from Thierry Fritsch [ v D / Tab 2] , who had worked for Nirav Modi for many 
years and spoke passionately about Nirav Modi as an entrepreneur and an artist. His 
evidence in my assessment does not assist me in relation to whether a prima face case 
has been disclosed. 
 
68. I also received live evidence from Dr Richard Taylor [ v C] an expert within the jewelry 
industry. His evidence was in essence to rebut the GOI’s evidence concerning the Hong 
Kong and Dubai based companies and the suggestion that they were related parties 
and simply involved in the circular rotation of goods to give the impression of trade. 
Dr Taylor describes the circular rotation of stock is in fact relatively common practice 
within the jewelry industry for compelling commercial reasons, in order to ensure 
stock which is not selling can be refashioned to improve salability or release capital 
when a company is suffering liquidity problems.  
 
Conclusions on prima facie case for CBI request. 
 
69. As Ms Malcolm and Mr Hearn submit, the GOI must establish that Nirav Modi: 
i. Formed or was party to an agreement 
ii. To defraud PNB by 
iii. Dishonestly causing/ permitting the issue of LOUs 
iv. By one or more of the indicated means 
v. Causing loss/risk of loss to PNB. 
 
70. I have considered the case of Shillam [2013] EWCA Crim 160 at [19] “The evidence 
may prove the existence of a conspiracy of narrower scope and involving fewer 
people than the prosecution originally alleged, in which case it is not intrinsically 
32 
 
wrong for the jury to return a guilty verdict accordingly but it is always necessary 
that for two or more persons to be convicted of a single conspiracy each of them must 
be proved to have shared a common purpose or design”. 
 
71. Based on the evidence set out above I make the following findings; 
 
i. The LOUs which are the subject of the CBI case were issued to NDM’s firms by 
Gokulnath Shetty, who is alleged as a co-conspirator with NDM. Mr Shetty 
retired on the 31st May 2017 shortly after the relevant LOUs were issued. 
ii. The LOUs had been issued in the same manner as LOUs issued to NDM’s firms 
between 2011 – 2017, without appropriate cash margins and without being 
recorded on the bank’s systems.  
iii. I find that it was necessary for the LOUs to be entered onto the CBS system so 
that the bank’s contingent liability could be tracked. I find the only reasonable 
explanation for the transactions not being entered onto the CBS system is so 
that the PNB were misled and the fraud would not be detected. This inference 
is also supported by Supriya Sakhare’s evidence.  
iv. The submission that the PNB had provided the companies with a long 
established and largely unsecured LOU credit facility operated in an ordinary 
way and in plain sight is not supported by the evidence that the LOUs were not 
entered on the bank’s CBS system. Submissions that between 17th October and 
13th November 2017 six LOUs had been issued to the companies approved by 
senior managers in circumstances where 100% margin had not been taken or 
entered on the LOUs is not supported by Mr Bhardwaj’s statements or those 
of other bank officials highlighted above. Mr Bhardwaj confirms the cash 
margins were obtained. They had been issued by Yashwant Joshi a co-
conspirator and were explicitly excluded from the CBI case. Supriya Sakhare 
confirms that details of those LOUs were entered onto the CBS system 
eventually due to software issues. Mr Bhardwaj’s evidence confirms Mr Shetty 
had failed to retain documents lodged by the firms in support of the LOUs. 
Those documents had been returned by Mr Shetty to the NDM Firms as 
confirmed by Mr Hindlekar.  
v. At the time the LOUs were issued, the firms did not have sufficient credit to 
provide requisite cash margins. The NDM firms had current accounts and did 
not enjoy any credit facility for issuance of LOUs.  
33 
 
vi. The LOUs were issued in direct contravention of the PNBs Circular No 
131/2009 dated 19th October 2009 by Mr Shetty. Albeit it is submitted the 
LOUs were sanctioned by PNB heads of Branch. Some of those heads of Branch 
remain under investigation. Albeit it is submitted on behalf of NDM that Mr 
Bhardwaj approved the issuance of the LOUs, that is not supported by the 
evidence of Supriya Sakhare. 
vii. There are clear links between NDM, Nehal Modi, Mihir Bhansali Gokulnath 
Shetty and Yashwant Joshi, named as some of the co-conspirators. To some 
extent, NDM’s links with officials at the Banks is corroborated by the 
conversation Supriya Sakhare had with Yashwant Joshi. In that conversation, 
Mr Joshi told her he had been asked to continue opening LOUs without 
entering them on the CBS system as was being done earlier by Gokulnath 
Shetty and she was told the bank should not ask for 100% margin. Albeit what 
was relayed in the conversation may be inadmissible hearsay, the evidence of 
the conversation itself is admissible to demonstrate the links between NDM 
and officials at the Bank, as well as the instruction she received not to ask for 
100% margin. There is also the evidence from Ravindra Hindelkar supporting 
how Mr Shetty sent original documents, which should have been retained at 
the Bank back to Firestar offices under the direction of Subhash Parab who 
reported to NDM.  
viii. When NDM’s firms approached PNB in January 2018 requesting fresh LOUs, 
when challenged by the Bank regarding the absence of any sanctioned facility 
in the firms’ favour, the NDM firms could not provide any evidence of any 
sanctioned facility with PNB. On 25th January 2018 the NDM firms replied to 
PNB indicating that in the absence of fresh buyers credit being issued they 
would default on repayment of the buyers credit extended to them by PNB in 
February 2017. The evidence of communications between NDM and PNB 
suggesting that this demonstrates a longstanding awareness by the Bank that 
LOUs had been long provided to the firms without cash margins were sent 
subsequent to PNBs refusals to issue further LOUs. I agree with the 
submission made by Ms Malcolm and Mr Hearn that it is a reasonable 
inference that these communications were a post facto attempt to legitimise 
what had occurred. I balance that against the fact no evidence has ever been 
adduced demonstrating the NDM firms had a sanctioned facility with PNB, 
something which was specifically requested by the Bank in January 2018.  
34 
 
ix. PNB filed a complaint with the CBI on 29th January 2018 and 13th February 
2018. 
x. On 5th February 2018 Nirav Modi personally wrote to the PNB accepting the 
fact of the debt and taking responsibility for the outstanding borrowing. The 
argument that the borrowing was known about, tolerated or sanctioned by 
PNB is inherently implausible in view of the amount of unsecured debt INRs 
6498 crores (equivalent to £729m) obtained by the three firms. In any event, 
that is disputed in the evidence from the Bank officials. 
xi. PNB officials unraveled a “Ponzi-like” structure where LOUs were used to 
repay earlier ones. 
xii. Following the reporting by the Bank to the CBI, concerted attempts were made 
to prevent dummy directors of companies controlled by NDM in Dubai and 
Hong Kong co-operating with investigators.  
xiii. The CBI investigation demonstrates that NDM had retained control of the 
Nirav Modi Firms but had sought to disguise the control of the firms through 
the use of dummy partners recruited at his behest in order to sustain the LOU 
scheme.  This was despite the email from Nirav Modi to the PNB stating his 
ownership in the entitles was less than 5% but he saw it as his “moral 
responsibility to arrive at an amicable solution”. 
xiv. I do not accept the submissions that NDM was involved in legitimate business 
and using the LOUs in a permissible fashion. It would not be in PNBs interests 
to create such enormous financial exposure through a financial product which 
the evidence from the Bank officials confirms is not designed for general 
business lending, I find there is no evidence of genuine import transactions 
and the applications for the LOUs was being done dishonestly. The statement 
of Rajendra Keshri is supportive of the fact the LOUs obtained by NDM’s firms 
were used to re-pay liabilities in relation to buyer’s credit obtained from earlier 
LOUs. Suggestion that buyers credit obtained by the Nirav Modi Firms was 
required for making payment for genuine imports from suppliers mentioned 
in the LOUs is not born out by statements from the dummy directors in the 
Hong Kong and Cairo based companies. Their evidence is that these 
companies were not genuine suppliers and were shadow companies controlled 
by NDM through several employees who were represented as directors of the 
companies. NDM’s firms’ business transactions were primarily with these 
dummy companies. The statements demonstrate that the circulation of pearls, 
35 
 
diamonds and gold between the NDM firms and the Dubai and Hong Kong 
based companies was not genuine business and the companies were being 
used for transferring funds generated “in the guise of sale – purchase / export 
– import of goods” colloquially referred to as “round tripping transactions”. 
Again, there no evidence demonstrating that the NDM firms had any 
sanctioned facility with PNB. 
xv. The fact NDM and his associates were aware of the risks presented by the 
dummy directors if they were to be spoken to by the authorities after the CBI 
investigation opened can be the only explanation for efforts which were made 
to ensure they were kept away from India. 
xvi. The evidence referred to at paragraph 54 above demonstrates that NDM was 
in direct control of the three Nirav Modi firms.  
xvii. Although there may be no direct evidence of NDM entering into an agreement 
with Bank officials and his other alleged conspirators, the evidence of the links 
between Nirav Modi, Nehal Modi, Mihir Bhansali, Gokulnath Shetty and 
Yashwant Joshi alone combined with my other findings above, in particular 
the lack of evidence of any sanctioned limit agreed with the Bank; the manner 
in which the LOUs were obtained and concealed, the manner to which the 
LOUs was used, the actions of NDM, his brother and Mr Bhansali after the CBI 
investigation opened cumulatively and progressively eliminate the alternative 
narrative put forward on NDMs behalf. The combination of the evidence taken 
as a whole create an inevitable conclusion NDM, his brother, Mr Shetty, Mr 
Bhansali and Mr Joshi Jie Zhang, were operating together dishonestly with 
other associates and banking officials to defraud the PNB.  
xviii. The loss to the Bank is evidenced in the statements from the Banking officials.  
 
72. I remind myself that this Court does not have to exclude all of NDM’s alternative 
narrative and possibilities or his personal interpretations of the evidence. Many of 
which will be matters for the trial in India and not relevant to the ultimate task for this 
Court on these requests. Pulling all these findings together, I determine, on one 
possible view of the evidence, I am satisfied that there is evidence upon which NDM 
could be convicted in relation the conspiracy to defraud the PNB. A prima face case is 
established.  
 
 
36 
 
Prima Facie case – ED case 
 
73. As Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson concede in their final written submissions, the ED 
case of money laundering is parasitic on whether prima facie case of conspiracy to 
defraud has been made out. If it has not, then there is no predicate offence on which 
to find any allegation of money laundering. If a prima facie case is made out on the 
conspiracy to defraud, then Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson accept that there will 
necessarily be a prima facie case of money laundering. Having found a prima facie 
case on the conspiracy, for the sake of brevity, I am not going to embark on setting out 
the full evidence relied on within the ED request and my evaluation thereof. It is a 
point conceded by those representing NDM and I find there is prima facie case of 
money laundering.  
 
Prima Face case – Supplementary CBI Request 
 
74. The GOI must establish that NDM: 
i. Formed or was party of an agreement 
ii. To commit acts 
iii. Tending and intending to pervert the course of justice 
iv. By one or more of the indicated means 
 
75. The s.161 statement of Anand Mohan [ v 11 / p.106-111] dated 9th March 2018. He is 
employed as an associate at the firm of laws Cryril Amarchand Manglada (CAM). On 
the 14th February 201, being aware that the ED and the CBI were undertaking searches 
of various premises of Nirav Modi group. He was aware that the three firms were 
Diamonds R US, Stellar Diamond and Solar Exports. He was asked by a colleague Ms 
Shaneen Parikh to liaise with Mr Miten Pandya so that documents relating to Nirav 
Modi’s firms could be delivered to the CAM offices. He was asked specifically to 
confirm with Mr Pandya that they would not accept any original documents. He 
confirms that Mr Pandya works with NDM. The documents were delivered to the 
lawyer’s office on the evening of 14th February 2018. It was confirmed by Mr Pandya 
that only copy documents had been brought. Scanning of the documents was 
undertaken and Ms Shanneen Parikh instructed him to contact Mr Pandya to have all 
the papers taken back but Mr Pandya never contacted him to arrange. He goes on to 
say that the documents were then seized from CAMs offices on 20th & 21st February 
37 
 
2018 and he subsequently learnt that they contained original documents from the 
three firms .His further statements dated 17th July 2019 explains during the scanning 
process he asked Mr Pandya why they had brought original documents and he was 
told  that “Nehal Modi and Vipul Ambani had told him that all documents which were 
lying in their office should be shifted to the office of Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas and 
he had brought all the documents of Firestar Group which were given to him by 
Nehal Modi and Vipul Ambani”.   
 
76. The search lists exhibited in the request set out details of the documents seized from 
the offices of CAM (V 11 (ii) pages 112 – 121) . These include original applications for 
LOU, airway bills, bills of entry, copies of SWIFT messages. All documents relating to 
the Nirav Modi Firms. In addition, the Production Cum Seizure Memo at pages 122 – 
123) include rubber stamps relating to companies controlled by Nirav Modi, all seized 
from the CAM office by the CBI.  
 
77. On the 29th May 2018, Ms Shannen Parikh of CAM emails Nirav Modi. The email is 
exhibited at Annex D of the Supplementary Request, is terminating the services to 
NDM by the firm of lawyers. Within the email she states: 
 
“ ….we are still reeling under the trauma that come upon us consequent to 
your treacherous conduct of saddling us with boxes of several original papers 
contrary to the express instructions to your representative to only send copies of 
relevant documents for conducting the legal and forensic analysis that we were 
engaged to do. Further, to our shock and surprise we later discovered that the boxes 
also had rubber stamps, seals and blank letter heads of your various companies, 
which apart from being highly unusual, was totally irrelevant for our professional 
work. Your conduct is reprehensible”   
 
78. In addition, statements have been provided by the dummy directors of the companies 
were transported from Dubai to Egypt by NDM’s associates. I will refer mainly to the 
s.161 statements from Ashish Lad [ referred to above] . He provides further details to 
those described above in his statements of 27th July 2018 and 10th June 2019 about 
the “round tripping transactions” used to create turnover for the Firestar Group and 
how transactions were communicated through a private communications system 
“panmail” or “crickinfo” within Firestar Group as well as the Dubai and Hong Kong 
38 
 
based companies. He explains that in March 2018 when the CBI investigation started, 
Mihir Bhansalli instructed all the dummy directors to withdraw money from the Dubai 
based accounts in which they were shown as namesake directors and handed over to 
Sandeep Mistry. They were told the cash would be handed over to Nirav Modi’s 
brother Nehal Modi. Thereafter in March 2018, Nehal Modi and Mihir Bhansali 
instructed them to go to Cairo and threatened them that the police would arrest them 
if they remained in Dubai. Flights were arranged by Nehal Modi. In the meeting with 
the dummy directors, Mihir Bhansali told them “there is a hostile scenario in India 
right now, and if we go to India, we will be arrested by the investigating agencies. 
He also told us that if we co-operate with them, they will provide shelter and legal 
help”. They were told by Mihir Bhansali he was conveying the instructions of NDM in 
terms of the sale / purchase transactions by Dubai based firms with the Nirav Modi 
firms, but they were requested “Not to disclose his name before any authority”. He 
also explains that Nehal Modi also came to Dubai and took their mobile phones back 
and issued new ones.  
 
79. Ashish Lad also explains that “There was a server in the office of World Diamond 
Distribution FZE in which all the data related to accounting and operations in 
respect of all the companies of Nirav Modi in Dubai was stored. The server was 
connected to all the branch/ head offices of the supplier dummy companies of Nirav 
Modi. As I recollect, somewhere at the end of March or April 2018, the office premises 
of World Diamond Distribution FZE situated in Dafza was vacated and returned to 
the authority. Similarly, the other Branch / Head Offices of certain dummy 
companies were also vacated and returned to the respective authorities. Prior to 
vacating the office of World Diamond Distribution FZE, the server was also 
removed. As per my knowledge, Shri Nehal Modi handed over the server hard disc 
to the firm of Pakistani Nationals for destroying the same “. 
 
80. He goes on to explain that Nehal Modi told him and the other directors in Dubai to 
leave. In fear, they all agreed to go to Cairo in Egypt. Nehal Modi arranged travel. 
Ashish Lad, Rushbh Jethwa, Netaji Mohite, Subhash Parab, Sandeep Mistry, Mrs 
Jyoti Mistry, Meet Mistry Nilesh Mistry, Jinesh Shah, Donu Mehta, Vipin Sanit, Suby 
George and Shridhar Mayekar were taken to Cairo and Nehal Modi removed their 
phones again.  
 
39 
 
81. In addition, I was provided with a video recording of a number of the dummy directors 
taken in Cairo. (Ashish Lad, Rushabh Jethwa, Shreedhar Mayekar, Sonu Mehta and 
Nilesh Mistry) This was played in Court and a transcript provided. In summary they 
each they describe themselves as the namesake owners of the various companies. They 
describe the fact they were made to sign documents for their own safety and those 
documents state that the companies in Dubai belonged to them. The documents state 
that they have been carrying on business with Firestar and NDM and after his financial 
crises, their businesses faced difficulties and to avoid creditor claims they have all 
come to Cairo. They say on the video that this is not true, because they were all working 
for NDM, they are under his control, they are living in fear and that is why they signed 
the documents, they signed the documents to get their passports back. Their passports 
were taken from them to get visas. They explain that they are making the video to let 
everyone know the pressure in which they’ve signed the documents because they had 
no other choice. [ Annex L (V) of the supplemental request] 
 
82. In addition, the request includes transcripts of audio recordings between Nehal Modi 
and a number of the dummy directors while they are in Cairo [ v 11 (ii) pp 145 – 151, 
152 – 159, 163 – 164, 180-181, 183-184. The conversations show how Nehal Modi 
placed pressure on individuals to make untruthful statements, tell them what to say 
in statements. In a conversation between Nehal Modi and Ashish Lad, Nehal Modi is 
instructing Ashish Lad about how he should return to India via Calcutta to evade the 
authorities. He explains a lawyer will visit him and he will sign documents and make 
same statements as Divyesh Ghandi. He also tells Ashish Lad he will need to go to 
Europe to make a statement in return for 20 Lakhs.   
 
83. In another transcribed call with Rushabh Jethwa, Nehal Modi instructs him to make 
a statement in which he states he travelled to Cairo because he was scared and that he 
does not work with Nirav Modi.  
 
84. In a further statement dated 11th June 20-19, Ashish Lad explains that in Cairo he was 
asking Sandeep Mistry to convince Nehal Modi to allow him to return to India. He 
explains that he received a call on his mobile from a private number which he did not 
answer. He then received a call from Nehal Modi telling him to answer the number as 
it was NDM. Ashish Lad explains that he then received a call from NDM. He tried to 
convince him to stay in Egypt and assured him that he would provide legal help. 
40 
 
Ashish Lad sates he kept asking NDM if he could return to India. He was told by NDM 
that if he does go to India he will be arrested. Ashish Lad explains to him that he has 
done all the transactions as per his instructions conveyed by Mihir Bhansali and 
Sandeep Mistry and he will face the authorities in India. However, at this point Ashish 
Lad says that Nirav Modi “started threatening me by using abusive language and 
also told me that he will get me killed ( In Gujarati “marvalakhis”) if I do not follow 
his instructions. He also threatened to implicate me in theft case. I was so scared. I 
was not expecting such type of response from Nirav Modi. I shared this conversation 
with Rushub Jethwas and Sridhar Mayekar”.  
 
85. Rushabth Jethway anf Shreedhar Mayekar confirm that Ashish Lad told them of the 
call from Nirav Modi in their respective statements dated 17th June 2019 and 26th 
November 2019. [ v 11 p.177- 181 & p 182 – 184] 
 
86. Finally, evidence of the threats made by NDM are further set out in the transcripts of 
audio conversations between Ashish Lad, Sandeep Mistry and Nehal Modi during the 
course of which Nehal Modi appears to apologise for his brother as he is under “crazy 
amount of stress and I am apologizing on his behalf”, before giving his word that 
Ashish Lad can leave Cairo on the 29th June.  
 
87.  In relation to moving the documents to CAMs, Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson 
submit that at its highest, it is simply the action of taking evidence to a very well-
known law firm for it to be scanned and stored electronically. Where there is a formal 
retainer in place between a client and a reputable law firm and documents are taken 
to the law firm to be copied pursuant to that retainer, that conduct cannot disclose a 
criminal offence of perverting the course of justice.  The letters of retainer exhibited 
by the defense show that CAM were engaged as soon as PNB refused to issue further 
letters of credit, in order to seek to resolve the issues between Nirav Modi’s companies 
and the PNB. On the GOIs own evidence, it is submitted that the documents were 
taken to CAMs offices and held there for a matter of days for the scanning to be 
undertaken. However, before they were returned to the companies, the documents 
were seized by the CBI. The only wrongdoing alleged is the fact there were some 
original documents. The email from Ms Shannen Parikh on the 29th May 2018 was 
sent at a time when CAM was having to fend off allegations made against it by the CBI. 
In summary, Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit there is no evidential basis to 
41 
 
support the proposition that in handing over materials to a reputable law firm in order 
than they could be scanned and stored, any person involved in a conspiracy to pervert 
the course of justice.  
 
88. In relation to the Cairo allegations, the alleged threat to Ashish Lad and the 
destruction of the server, the GOIs essential case is that the directors of the Dubai 
companies were transported involuntarily out of Dubai to Egypt by Nirav Modi and 
his associates, held against their will and placed under pressure to give false 
statements to the Indian authorities. However, Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson 
submit that the reality was somewhat very different. The Directors themselves chose 
whether or not to travel to Cairo. They went for their own reasons, because they were 
fearful of arrest in Dubai in circumstances where their families in India were being 
pressurized by the CBI. They lived freely in Cairo, were able to leave as and when they 
wanted to and they made plans to remain there and work. They were not coerced into 
making false statements to the Indian authorities, they decided to return to India 
having seen a former director who had stayed in India (Divyesh Ghandi) had been able 
to avoid arrest having made statements against Mr Modi and having made contact 
with the Indian authorities, they then concocted an account of having been pressured 
/ coerced to go to Cairo to seek to justify their departure from Dubai and preserve their 
position before the Indian authorities. 
 
89. The flaws in the GOI case are such it is submitted that the s.161 statements taken from 
the directors are worthless. I am asked to consider various identical verbatim sections 
of the statements taken from Ashish Lad, Nilesh Mistry and Mayeka regarding what 
led the directors to go to Cairo. It is submitted that these verbatim sections, which 
must have been prepared by the investigators causes very substantial concern 
surrounding the authenticity and reliability of the s.161 statements such that no weight 
should be attached to those statements. In addition, the notion that the directors were 
held there against their will is unsustainable when considered alongside the evidence 
submitted by the defence. 
 
90. The Defence have filed significant evidence including six statements from those who 
were with the directors in Cairo between April and June 2018. In brief summary, 
Mohamed Yosr [ v N / Tab 7] , a coordinator for tourists and visitors who acted as the 
directors tour guide in Cairo. Ahmed Akl [ v N / Tab 8], a corporate lawyer in Cairo 
42 
 
who assisted the directors to set up businesses in Egypt. Mohamed Selim [ v N / Tab 
9], a property developer in Cairo who not only helped the directors find suitable 
accommodation but also became a joint shareholder in the Egyptian companies they 
incorporated. Ibraham Zakariya [ v N / Tab 10] a PR manager at a school in Cairo who 
showed Ashish Lad around the Al Ahram Modern School in Cairo when he was 
considering sending his son there. Ahmed Magdy [ v n / Tab 11], a real estate broker 
in Cairo who helped Mr Lad who was looking to buy and apartment which was close 
to the school. Finally, Subhash Parab [ v N/Tab 12] who worked in the finance 
department at Firestar Dubai who travelled to Egypt with the directors and explains 
his experience of his time with them. Various contemporaneous documents and 
communications which support their accounts are exhibited. Taken together it is 
submitted these statements and their exhibits demonstrate no reliance whatsoever 
can be placed on the evidence on which the GOI rests its case. It is completely at odds 
with the reality of the situation in Cairo and therefore the evidence on which the GOI 
is characterized is “worthless” and ought to be excluded from consideration. 
 
91. Finally, significant criticism is made of Ashish Lad’s evidence, particularly his 
truthfulness about him visiting the schools in Egypt.  
 
Conclusions on prima facie case for supplemental CBI request. 
 
92. I make the following findings on the evidence: 
i. Albeit it is submitted on NDM’s behalf that the characterisation of the evidence 
relating to moving documents to CAM is simply evidence of the retainer with 
the Indian Law firm engaged in January 2018 to act on behalf of NDM and the 
three Nirav Modi firms to provide strategic and legal advice in relation to the 
firms interaction with the PNB and other lenders is one view that can be taken 
of the conduct within the request, however, I find the context cannot be 
ignored. Once NDM learned in January 2018 that no further LOUs would be 
forthcoming from the PNB all documentation relating to the companies was 
moved to CAM. The relevant documents included original LOU applications 
and request letters which should never have left the PNB. Although whether 
these were originals is disputed, that is a matter for the trial. However, what is 
probative in determining whether there is a prima facie case is the evidence 
that original documents had been returned to the NDM firms by Mr Shetty (as 
43 
 
per evidence from Ranvindra Hindelkar in the first CBI request – see above). 
Of note the documents were delivered to CAM on the 14th February 2018 at a 
time when NDM would have been aware of the CBI investigation and searches 
of the Firestar Group offices which began on the 3rd February 2018. The seizure 
memo and search list documents materials seized from the CAM offices which 
included rubber stamps of various entities within the Firestar Group including 
the NDM firms, blank judicial stamp papers issued in the names of the various 
Firestar Group entities, original copies of request letters submitted to PNB by 
the NDM firms for issuance of the LOUs. These should have been in PNB’s 
possession. Also found were blank letter heads of various Firestar Group 
entities, original invoices, house airway bills and bills of entry. There is no 
explanation provided why original documents that had been submitted to PNB 
in support of the LOU applications are in the possession of NDM firms or his 
co-conspirators or why they were sent to CAM. As I have found in relation to 
the first CBI request, those documents had been returned by Mr Shetty to the 
firms contrary to PNB practice and procedure. 
ii. I accept there are competing version of events when you compare the 
statements of the dummy directors and those statements served by the defense 
about what happened in Cairo. Considering the entirety of the evidence, the 
dummy directors’ evidence in their statements supports the ponzi-like scheme 
and the operation of the fraud set out in the statements from the PNB officials 
in relation to the first request. The directors’ statements are corroborated by 
the video recording made in Cairo and the audio recordings of telephone 
conversations between the directors and NDM’s associates in particular his 
brother Nehal Modi. The audio recordings support the directors’ evidence 
about the involvement of NDM’s brother in making arrangements for the 
directors to travel to Cairo and specific instructions Nehal Modi was giving as 
to when individuals could leave Cairo and their points of entry back in India to 
avoid investigating authorities. They also corroborate evidence from the 
directors that they are told to make statements and what the statements will 
say by Nehal Modi and indeed Nehal Modi instructs Ashish Lad to travel to 
Europe to make a statement.  
iii. Albeit the witness statements served by the defence provide an alternative 
narrative about what happened in Cairo, these do not in my assessment 
undermine the value of the telephone and video evidence in determining 
44 
 
whether there is a prima facie case. The transcripts of the telephone calls make 
clear who remained in control though inducements and intimidation by NDM, 
his brother and their associates.  
iv. Albeit I accept the submission made by Ms Montgomery that some of the 
directors’ statements included verbatim passages, these were statements made 
to a police officer. The direct oral evidence would be admissible in England 
and I find the statements have value. There is no evidence that undermines the 
bona fides of the officers or supports the defence assertion that the statements 
had been prepared by the investigators or undermines their authenticity. The 
statements are being made from the witnesses’ own knowledge about what 
happened to them and what they were told by Nehal Modi and Mihir Bhansali. 
The contents of their statements and their veracity can be tested at trial.  
v. There is clear evidence in Ashish Lad’s statement of a direct threat being made 
by NDM which is supported by the audio recorded conversations between 
Ashish Lad, Sandeep Mistry and Nehal Modi. In the course of the conversation 
the threat is impliedly accepted by NDM’s brother who apologies for what was 
said to Ashish Lad.  
vi. Again, although there may be no direct evidence of NDM entering into an 
agreement with his other alleged conspirators, the evidence cumulatively and 
progressively, taken as a whole create an inevitable conclusion NDM and his 
co-conspirators were working in concert to cause the removal of evidence from 
the reach of the investigators, interfering with witnesses to the investigation, 
destruction of evidence all of which tends to pervert the course of justice.  In 
addition, there is direct evidence of a threat made by NDM to Ashish Lad.  
 
93. I remind myself again that this Court does not have to exclude all of Nirav Modi’s 
alternative narrative and possibilities or his personal interpretations of the evidence. 
These will be matters for the trial in India and not relevant to the ultimate task for this 
Court on these requests. Considering these findings, I determine that on one possible 
view of the evidence, I am satisfied that there is evidence upon which Nirav Modi could 
be convicted in relation the conspiracy to pervert the course of justice and the stand 
alone conspiracy to pervert the course of justice by threatening to kill Ashish Lad. A 
prima face case is established.  
 
 
45 
 
Extradition Offences 
94. It is submitted by the GOI that the offences specified in the request are extradition 
offences as defined by s.137(3) of the 2003 Act, which applies where, as here, Nirav 
Modi is accused in a Category 2 territory of the commissions of offences constituted 
by the conduct set out in the request. The test is based upon the conduct described 
rather than upon the elements of the foreign offence Norris v. USA [2008] 1 AC 920.  
 
95. I remind myself that the burden rests of the RS to prove to the criminal standard 
pursuant to s.206 EA 2003 that the offences within the request are extradition 
offences. I also remind myself of the provisions of s.137 EA 2003: 
 
s.137 Extradition offences: person not sentenced for offence 
 (1) This section sets out whether a person's conduct constitutes an “extradition 
offence” for the purposes of this Part in a case where the person— 
(a)is accused in a category 2 territory of an offence constituted by the 
conduct, or 
(b)has been convicted in that territory of an offence constituted by the 
conduct but not sentenced for it. 
(2) The conduct constitutes an extradition  offence in relation to the category 2 
territory if the conditions in subsection (3), (4) or (5) are satisfied. 
(3) The conditions in this subsection are that— 
(a)the conduct occurs in the category 2 territory; 
(b)the conduct would constitute an offence under the law of the relevant part 
of the United Kingdom punishable with imprisonment or another form of 
detention for a term of 12 months or a greater punishment if it occurred in 
that part of the United Kingdom; 
(c)the conduct is so punishable under the law of the category 2 territory. 
 
96. The correct approach is to look at the essentials of the conduct relied on and consider 
whether if it had occurred in England, at the time it was alleged to have occurred, it 
would have constituted an English offence. The words “constitute an offence” in 
s.137(2)(b) EA 2003 do not mean the RS have to prove guilt of NDM in English law, it 
simply means that, if proved, it would constitute a comparable English offence  
Maurov v. USA [2009] EWHC 150 (Admin). Maurice Kay LJ main it plain that 
whether to court is dealing with the actus reus or mens rea, the principle is the same, 
46 
 
namely it suffices that the matters alleged would “be capable of satisfying the 
requirements of the English offence, if proved.”  
 
97. A request need not identify the relevant mens rea of the equivalent English offence for 
the purposes of satisfying dual criminality. Instead it suffices that the necessary 
mental element can be inferred by the court from the conduct identified in the request 
documents or that the conduct alleged includes matters capable of sustaining the 
mental element necessary under English law.  
 
98. Furthermore, at paragraph 57 of Assange v. Swedish Prosecution Authority [2011] 
EWHC 2849 (Admin) the “inevitable inference” test is described as” it is not necessary 
to identify in the description of the conduct the mental element or mens rea required 
under the law of England and Wales for the offence; it was sufficient if it could be 
inferred from the description of the conduct set out in the EAW. However, the facts 
set out in the warrant must not merely enable the inference to be drawn that the 
defendant did the acts alleged with the necessary mens rea. They must be such as to 
impel the inference that he did so; it must be the only reasonable inference to be 
drawn from the facts alleged”. 
 
99. This was recently affirmed in the recent decision of the Divisional Court in Cleveland 
v. Government of the USA [2019] 1WLR 4392 at para[83]: 
 
“To summarise, the “inevitable inference” test set out in para 57 of Assange’s case is 
solely aimed at preventing a person being extradited and then convicted in the 
requesting state on a basis which would not constitute an offence under English law. 
Where an essential ingredient under our criminal law is missing from the offence 
for which extradition is sought, a requirement for dual criminality is none the less 
satisfied if the court concludes that that ingredient would be the inevitable corollary 
of proving the matters alleged to constitute the foreign offence. But there is no legal 
justification for applying the “inevitable inference” test more widely. To do so would 
breach the general principle that a court dealing with a request for extradition is 
not concerned to assess the strength of the evidence that would be presented in any 
trial in the foreign court”. 
 
100. Scrutiny by the Court of the description of conduct alleged to constitute the 
offence specified, is not an enquiry into the adequacy of the evidence summarised in 
47 
 
the request. The Court is not concerned to assess the quality or sufficiency of the 
evidence in support of the conduct alleged; R (Castillo) v. King of Spain [2005] 1WLR 
1043.  
 
101. The GOI submit that the requirements of s.137(3) are met: 
 
i. The conduct occurs in the Category 2 territory – the alleged conduct in all three 
requests occurred in India or at least in part in India. 
 
ii. The conduct would constitute offences under the law of the relevant part of the 
United Kingdom punishable with imprisonment or another form of detention 
for a term of 12 months or greater punishment if it occurred in that part – the 
conduct in request of the CBI request would constitute, inter alia, the UK 
offence of “conspiracy to defraud” which carries a maximum sentence of 10 
years imprisonment.  
 
The conduct in respect of the ED request would constitute, inter alia, the UK 
offence of “Conspiracy to conceal, disguise, convert, transfer or remove 
criminal property” namely money laundering which carries a maximum 
sentence of 14 years imprisonment. 
 
The conduct in the Third request would constitute, inter alia, the offence of 
perverting the course of justice or conspiracy to pervert the course of justice 
had the conduct occurred in the UK. Perverting the course of justice is 
punishable under UK law with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.  
 
iii. The conduct is so punishable under the law of the Category 2 territory: 
 
The offence of criminal conspiracy contrary to s. 120B read with section 420 
of the Indian Penal Code is punishable with imprisonment up to 7 years; 
s.120B read with s.409 of the Indian Penal Code carries maximum sentence of 
life imprisonment; section 120B Indian penal Code read with section 12 of the 
Prevention of Corruption Act is punishable with imprisonment up to 10 years. 
 
48 
 
The offence of cheating and dishonestly inducting delivery of property 
contrary to section 420 of the Indian Penal Code is punishable with 
imprisonment up to 7 years. 
 
The offence of money laundering contrary to the PMLA 2002 is punishable 
with between 3 and 7 years imprisonment. 
 
The offence of criminal conspiracy for causing disappearance of evidence or 
giving false information to screen offender is punishable with a maximum 
sentence of 3 years imprisonment. 
 
The offence of criminal intimidation to cause death is punishable with a 
maximum sentence of 7 years.  
 
102.  The GOI submit the requests disclose extradition offences. 
 
103. Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson make submissions arising from evidence I 
heard from Justice Thipsay. He provided a report dated 20th December 2019 and 29th 
June 2020, which he adopted [ Vol a / Tab 1, Tab 6].  He also gave live evidence by 
live link on the 13th May 2020. Justice Abhay M. Thipsay is a retired judge of the High 
Court of Judicature in Allahabad. In relation to the first CBI request, for the purposes 
of establishing an offence of “cheating” contrary to s.420 of the Indian Penal Code, 
Justice Thipsay explained that under Indian law there must be an “operative 
deception” on a “victim”. As Justice Thipsay summarises “It must be shown that the 
complainant would not have parted with the property, but for the deception payed 
on him. If the victim is not deceived, there would be no cheating”. It is submitted that 
no such conduct is alleged in the request. As Justice Thipsay explained in his evidence 
“there must have been a victim who has been deceived. If we see the case of the GOI 
in the extradition request it is that all the accused who were in the conspiracy, those 
accused were not deceived. And therefore the GOI has come up with an answer that 
it was PNB body that was deceived…But I cannot find anybody deceived by the 
issuing LOU”. Moreover, it is submitted that as Justice Thipsay explained, under the 
Indian law of attribution, if it is said, as it is here, that a body corporate (ie PNB) was 
deceived, then that requires somebody who represents that corporate body to be 
deceived “you need to identify a person representing the body corporate”. In 
49 
 
summary, it is submitted on behalf of NDM that the legal submission under s.137 EA  
2003 is analogous to the defense submission on the facts: PNB’s lending was 
undertaken openly and with the consent of the relevant bank officials at PNB.  
 
104. With regard to the second charge under Indian law “criminal breach of trust” 
pursuant to s.409 of the Indian Penal Code, Justice Thipsay’s evidence is that the 
GOI’s request fails to meet the requirements that the relevant property has been 
suitably “entrusted”. As Justice Thipsay explains in his report, “Entrustment is the 
essence of the offence of criminal breach of trust…I find that except mentioning that 
the accused persons have committed an offence punishable under s.409 there is no 
assertion of any facts which would suggest the existence of the ingredients of the 
offence…the fact that some property was entrusted to any of the accused and that it 
was utilized by the accused contrary to the directions of law or in breach of any 
agreement as to the manner in which it should be used is not even averred”. The 
GOI’s answer to this analysis is that the entrapment in this case was the power to issue 
LOUs was also rejected by Justice Thipsay. “Yes, that is sought to be made out. But 
that is not correct. The power to issue LOUs cannot be said to be property. Person 
who does that cannot be said to be entrusted with property so as to be subject to 
criminal breach of trust.” Finally, Justice Thipsay states that a required element of 
the corruption offences is gratification. 
 
105. Finally, in relation to the third request, the issue raised on behalf of NDM is 
whether the conduct alleged to be perverting the course of justice properly amounts 
to an offence under either Indian or English law for the purposes of s.137 of the 2003 
Act. Under Indian law, Justice Thipsay, explains that there are issues in respect of 
whether either removing documents from PNB by taking them to CAM and /or the 
witnesses move to Egypt could constitute an offence of “causing the disappearance of 
evidence” under s.201 Indian Penal Code. He also questions whether the offence of 
criminal intimidation under s.506 Indian Penal Code is made out by conduct which is 
actually only a threat of arrest by the police or ED in Dubai, Hong Kong or India. The 
submission is that the third request conflates a police investigation with the course of 
justice, when the two are distinct such that conduct which disrupts a police 
investigation will not necessarily and of itself amount to an offence under common 
law of “perverting the course of justice” The defense submit that the only conduct the 
GOI allege which is relevant to the UK offence of “perverting” is directed toward the 
50 
 
very early stages of the CBI investigation, incapable of amounting to the English 
common law offence. 
 
106. In relation to Justice Thipsay, I attach no weight to his opinions set out in his 
reports and in oral testimony.  
 
107.Following giving evidence on the 13th May 2020, the Indian Law Minister Ravi 
Shankar Prasad, gave a press conference. During the press conference the Law 
Minster made reference to Justice Thipsay’s evidence in these extradition 
proceedings. The Minister said “he is a retired judge from the Mumbai High Court, 
and around ten months before his retirement, the Supreme Court transferred him to 
Allahabad High Court due to administrative reasons………that tells its own story”. 
Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit this was a deliberate insinuation that there 
was something untoward in Justice Thipsay’s transfer. The Minister also comments 
that Justice Thipsay’s evidence was directed by the opposition party in India, the 
Congress Party; “a Congress member, who is a judge, a retired judge, give testimony 
in [Mr Modi’s] defence, the situation is so suspicious, that based on it we can conclude 
that the Congress Party is repeatedly trying to save Nirav Modi”. He also comments 
that Justice Tipsay’s evidence was “legally unsustainable”. 
 
108. I was referred to extensive material regarding the media attention to the 
Government’s comments about Justice Thipsay’s evidence. I was due to hear from 
Justice Thipsay again when the hearing resumed in September. I was asked for either 
the court to impose an order pursuant to s.4(2) Contempt of Court Act 1981 to 
postpone the reporting of Mr Justice Thipsay’s evidence or alternatively for the court 
to sit in private during the course of his evidence as a direct consequence of the adverse 
media coverage he had received in India. Having considered the transcript of the press 
conference, it was clear in my view that it was a press conference given purely in a 
political context, albeit as the Minister of Justice, in the context of the BJP Party 
making political commentary about the Congress Party. That in turn, unsurprisingly, 
garnered significant attention and headlines within the media and in social media 
platforms. It was commentary which Justice Thipsay also was interviewed about 
himself on television in the period between the first part of these extradition hearing 
and the resumption of the hearing in September. Unwise political commentary maybe 
51 
 
but an equally unwise decision to have engaged with the media himself while these 
proceeding were sub judice.  
 
109. The extradition request for Nirav Modi is a high-profile case in India and I 
have no doubt that Justice Thipsay as a former High Court Judge has overseen many 
high profile cases in his time. He entered into the arena of giving evidence in these 
extradition proceedings with his eyes open to the focus and scrutiny the case would 
inevitably receive in India. It is inevitable he could have foreseen his affiliation to the 
Congress Party may attract interest. Having checked his report dated 20th December 
2019 and 29th June 2020, I note he has never disclosed his party-political affiliation 
either in the report’s biography or in relation to his declaration as an expert and 
disclosure of any potential conflict of interests. Justice Thipsay did not initially refuse 
to give evidence again in these proceedings but he requested the court sit in private as 
he says “it is likely to reduce the India media’s interest and the risk that the GOI will 
again use my evidence as a political vehicle and to malign me”. Albeit I had regard to 
the interests of Justice Thipsay as a witnesses, sitting in private was not justified 
merely on the ground, that having regard to the nature of his evidence, testifying  
publicly may result in further adverse commentary about him. I also refused to 
postpone reporting under s.4(2) Contempt of Court Act 1981. There was no clear 
evidence that reporting his evidence will give rise to a substantial risk of prejudice to 
the administration of justice in these extradition proceedings. 
 
110. I do not concern myself with political commentary and opinions of politicians in India 
about Justice Thipsay’s evidence. However, Justice Thipsay is a retired High Court 
Judge in India, giving evidence as an expert in this extradition request on behalf of 
NDM. He is aware of the nature and interest in these proceedings. He would equally 
be aware of his own political connections to Congress which it transpires he joined 
after his retirement. Justice Thipsay refused to give live evidence when the extradition 
hearing resumed.  Justice Thipsay is a retired judge who has aligned himself with a 
political party on his retirement and received adverse commentary in the media. 
However, he also engaged and courted with the media himself. His additional reports 
and opinions subsequently submitted by the defence have not been subject to scrutiny. 
His unwillingness to give further evidence in these proceedings, simply because he did 
not get the protections which in my view there was no sound basis to grant, meant his 
opinion went unchallenged by the GOI. There has been no ability for the Court to 
52 
 
further scrutinise his expert testimony. Overall, these factors have the effect, in my 
assessment, of nullifying any weight I would have attached to his evidence.  
 
111. I remind myself again that the test is based upon the conduct described rather than 
upon the elements of the foreign offences Norris v. USA [2008] 1 AC 920. It is 
sufficient that the matters alleged would “be capable of satisfying the requirements 
of the English offence, if proved.” I have set out already my findings in relation to the 
prima facie case and I do not intend to rehearse that again. Dishonest behaviour would 
be the inevitable corollary of proving the matters alleged to constitute the foreign 
offence. I am satisfied so I am sure that the GOI have proved that the conduct in the 
requests is capable of satisfying the requirements of the notional English offences, if 
proved. I am satisfied the requirements of s.137 of the Act are met.  
 
Human Rights – section 87 of the Act 
 
112. section 87 of the Extradition Act reads as follows: 
 
i. s87 Human rights 
a. If the judge is required to proceed under this section (by virtue 
of section 84, 85 or 86) he must decide whether the person’s extradition 
would be compatible with the Convention rights within the meaning 
of the Human Rights Act 1998 (c. 42). 
b. If the judge decides the question in subsection (1) in the negative 
he must order the person’s discharge. 
c. If the judge decides that question in the affirmative he must send the 
case to the Secretary of State for his decision whether the person is to 
be extradited 
 
113. Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson raise Article 6 and 3 challenges under section 87 of 
the 2003 Act.  I must decide whether NDM’s extradition would be compatible with his 
Convention rights within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998.  If I decide in 
the negative I must order his discharge.   
 
 
 
53 
 
Article 6 – Fair Trial Rights 
 
114. In relation to the legal framework, the parties are agreed. Article 6 of the ECHR 
prohibits extradition in circumstances where there are substantial grounds for 
believing that there is a real risk that, if extradited, an individual would be exposed to 
a “flagrant denial of a fair trial” Soering v. United Kingdom (1989) 11 ECHRR 439.  
 
115. “Real risk” does not mean proof on the balance of probabilities. It means a risk which 
is substantial and mot merely fanciful; and it may be established by something less 
than proof of a 51% probability Brown v. Government of Rwanda (2009) EWHC 770.  
 
116. A “flagrant denial of justice” is “synonymous with a trial which is manifestly 
contrary to the provisions of Article 6 or the principles embodied therein” Othman v. 
UK (2012) 55 EHRR 1.  It is the same as establishing a real risk of a “gross violation” 
or showing that the deficiencies in the process were such that the trial he would face 
on his return would be “so fundamental as to amount to a nullification or destruction 
of the very essence of the rights guaranteed”: Dudko v. Russian Federation [2010] 
EWHC 1125 (Admin). The burden of proof rests on the request person.  
 
117. Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson submit that NDM’s case now attracts “the most 
virulent and scathing press and social media commentary. He has been vilified, 
deliberately humiliated in the public consciousness, and held up as an exemplar of 
the cause of India’s economic woes”. They refer me in to press coverage from 9th 
January 2020 “Angry Mumbaikars to burn 58-feet tall effigy of Nirav Modi on 
“Holi”,in which residents of Mumbai have found a way to celebrate the festival of 
Holi to “vent out their ire against the  Punjab National Bank scam accused, 
businessman Nirav Modi” A further article in the Indian Express from August 2018 
quotes the Environment Minister directing the demolition of an illegal bungalow of 
Nirav Modi “ who has looted India and fled”.  
 
118. It is also submitted that Nirav Modi’s case has consistently generated political 
attention. Reference is made to newspaper articles in January 2020 in which Defense 
Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told media in a press briefing that “the entire mite of 
the government has been invoked to pin the culprit Nirav Modi in the fraud case 
immediately after it came to light. Nirav Modi may have been able to run away from 
54 
 
the country but government is taking action against him”. In addition, comments 
made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the government “will take stern action 
against irregularities relating to economic matters……the system will not accept 
theft of public money”. These comments made as the Economic Times reports, “in the 
wake of alleged bank frauds involving jewelers Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi and 
business man Vikram Kothari”. Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit that not only 
has NDM’s case been prejudiced by politicians and commentators, his guilt is being 
actively promoted by the BJP as part of its campaign messaging.  
 
119. In relation to whether NDM will be unable to advance any defense case before an 
Indian Court, Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson draw my attention to the statement of 
Mr Doobay [ v D], NDM’s Solicitor and the significant issues in preparing Mr Modi’s 
extradition case, where Indian lawyers as experts and witnesses of fact have all 
demonstrated a marked reluctance to give evidence on NDM’s behalf. Referring to an 
unnamed organisation he approached to find potential witnesses, they stated “there 
was a blatant political drive to crush dissent which promoted a climate of fear at 
many levels in Indian society” and a fear of standing up against the government. 
Another unnamed lawyer in India replied stating “potential witnesses see that friends 
and associates of Mr Modi have been scrutinized and raised and are fearful to get 
involved”. One expert who had agreed to prepare a report in the extradition 
proceedings is said to have pulled out as “their children were lawyers and had told 
them that their practices would suffer by association and that no one would 
understand the independent and objective role of an expert and would assume that 
they were supporting Mr Modi”. Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson submit that access 
to defence witnesses and defence representation is critical to the fairness of any 
criminal trial and can be decisive in assessing whether a future trial will be flagrantly 
unfair. 
 
120. My attention is drawn to a report of a case study of the treatment by the Indian 
authorities of a person of significant political interest in India, namely a recently 
extradited suspect Christian James Michel. The report is compiled by the authors 
through access to his friends and family and private correspondence. This report is 
adduced in evidence to demonstrate the likely treatment of NDM. In relation to the 
treatment of Christian Michel by the CBI and ED, the report states that Mr Michel was 
“held in squalid conditions, subjected prolonged interrogations, threatened with 
55 
 
violence and ill-treatment aimed at securing a confession through coercion and has 
never been formally charged”. Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit this report 
provides an accurate guide to the approach of law enforcement investigators to high 
profile accused / defendants today.  
 
121. During the hearing I received evidence from Justice Katju by live link from India. He 
is a former Indian judge who served in the Allahabad High Court from 1991, then its 
Acting Chief Justice and later Chief Justice of the Madras High Court and then the 
Delhi High Court, before his appointment as a Judge of the Indian Supreme Court 
until his retirement in 2011. Following his retirement, Mr Justice Katju has served as 
Chairman of the Press Council of India. His reports and annexes are included in [ v N 
/ Tabs 5 & 6] 
 
122.Justice Katju’s evidence centered primarily on the fact Indian Courts have become 
politicised. He states that in recent years the Supreme Court in India has “practically 
surrendered before the Indian Government and is doing its bidding and is not acting 
as an independent organ of the state protecting the rights of the people as it was 
supposed to be” and in his view the “Indian judiciary has largely surrendered before 
the political executive”. He gives example of a case heard by the Supreme Court which 
in his view have been perversely decided and the Chief Justice was “simply doing the 
bidding of the Indian Government. He has been rewarded as a quid pro quo by being 
nominated as a member of Parliament after retirement”.   
 
123. Justice Katju also makes reference to a former Chief Justice allotting critical cases to 
benches presided over by relatively junior judges known for their affinity for the ruling 
BJP party. He further gives account of an incident in January 2018 when four senior 
Supreme Court Judges addressed the media cautioning that “democracy was at stake” 
aggrieved by the way the judicial system was being operated in the country. Justice 
Katju concluded that under political influence, crucial matters of public importance 
were being allotted to handpicked benches of judges favorable to the ruling party and 
the powers that be. He stated, “the highest echelons of the Indian judiciary have now 
come under significant political ad executive influence”.  
 
124. In answer to supplementary questions, he was asked by Ms Mongomery 
whether the problem was confined to the superior courts to which Justice Katju 
56 
 
replied that “there is corruption rampant, large number of judges at all levels have 
become corrupt. I guess 50% of judges are corrupt in India”.  
 
125. Justice Katju also relies on various examples of political interference in the 
appointment of judges which he describes as the Supreme Court having become 
“subservient to the Indian Government” which he describes as “spinlessness and 
servility”. He also provides commentary on pro-government judges being appointed 
to positions of influence by the government on their retirement.  
 
126. Justice Katju also expressed concerns about ministerial pronouncements of 
NDM’s guilt including a press conference given by Mr Ravi Shankar Prasad the law 
minister who commented that Mr Modi was a fugitive and a criminal, demonstrating 
an inherent bias and that such comments that NDM is a criminal will have an 
inevitable effect on the judiciary. He goes on to give his opinion that NDM has been 
subjected to a media trial and victimised even before the investigation was complete 
or the trial takes place. He believes that the media coverage has been so negative and 
prejudiced that “the entire nation believes him to be guilty of a large-scale fraud” 
despite the fact he still remains to be tried.  
 
127. In relation to the CBI, Justice Katju explains there is evidence that the Government 
blatantly interferes with the CBI’s functions and that it functions under the direction 
of the ruling government. “Justice cannot be expected from an institution which itself 
is caged”. As far as the ED is concerned his opinion is that they are under the complete 
control of the government. 
 
128. In his evidence to the Court he concluded his opinions regarding NDM having 
a fair trial by saying that India was in terrible economic collapse even before the 
pandemic, millions of people lost jobs. He continued by saying that the BJP were 
trying to solve the problem but they do not know how to, so they find scapegoats and 
NDM is a scapegoat for causing financial crisis in India. This is the crux of the 
problem.  NDM must be blamed for the collapse of the Indian economy. He is cited as 
a criminal.  
 
129. In cross-examination, Justice Katju made some astonishing, inappropriate 
and grossly insensitive comparisons. He stated that because the BJP cannot solve the 
57 
 
economic crises it is just like “Hitler and the Jews”. “Nirav Modi is the Jew that must 
be blamed for all the problems in India”.  When challenged about his imputations 
about the investigation, he stated that he was not commenting on the merits of the 
case but that NDM cannot get a fair trial.  
 
130. Ms Malcolm challenged Justice Katju about statements he had made to the 
Indian media the day before giving his evidence in these extradition proceedings. He 
agreed he made statements to the media despite the extradition proceedings being sub 
judice. He was challenged about the appropriateness of giving press briefings, and 
expressing his concerns as a high-profile figure in India was simply making matters 
worse and undermining the rule of law, a self-fulfilling prophecy.  
 
131. He was challenged about his astonishing allegations concerning the number of 
corrupt Chief Justices in India. However, Justice Katju replied that “In last decade – 
many more chief justices have come and gone and it was known they were corrupt. 
That is my evidence, that is true. I am an insider – 20 years a judge – I know the 
workings …..Over 50% of all judges are corrupt – this is my guess”. Justice Katju 
denied suggestions he was a self-publicist making outrageous comments to garner 
press attention.  
 
132. Ms Malcolm challenged some of his historic comments captured in the media. In 
2012, he accepted he said that 90% of Indians are fools. “I say it even now, politicians 
take advantage”. He accepted in 2014 in his own blog he said gay relationships were 
humbug and nonsense, albeit he explained he modified his statement. He also 
accepted he had previously made a statement that “Women who remain single are 
prone to psychological problems”. He denied he made outrageous statements to court 
the press. “I have an opinion and that is my opinion”.  
 
133. Finally, Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson rely on the events that occurred between the 
hearing in May and the resumption of the extradition hearing in September. On the 
13th 2020 I heard expert evidence from Mr Justice Thipsay [referred to above] by live 
link. His evidence addressed a series of legal points which I have dealt with ealier in 
this judgment. The day after Justice Thipsay gave evidence, the Indian Law Minister 
Ravi Shankar Prasad, gave a press conference. During the press conference the Law 
Minster made reference to Justice Thipsay’s evidence in these extradition 
58 
 
proceedings. The Minister said “he is a retired judge from the Mumbai High Court, 
and around ten months before his retirement, the Supreme Court transferred him to 
Allahabad High Court due to administrative reasons………that tells its own story”. 
Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit this was a deliberate insinuation that there 
was something untoward in Justice Thipsay’s transfer. The Minister also comments 
that Justice Thipsay’s evidence was directed by the opposition party in India, the 
Congress Party; “a Congress member, who is a judge, a retired judge, give testimony 
in [Mr Modi’s] defence, the situation is so suspicious, that based on it we can conclude 
that the Congress Party is repeatedly trying to save Nirav Modi”. He also comments 
that Justice Tipsay’s evidence was “legally unsustainable”. 
 
134.Thereafter, I have been referred to extensive material gathered in evidence by Mr 
Doobay regarding the media attention to the Government’s comments about Justice 
Thipsay’s evidence. Mr Doobay’s statement dated 30th June 2020 exhibits a schedule 
of 29 excerpts from media publications and commentary by the press together with a 
plethora of links to coverage by the ‘India Today’ programme, broadcast media as well 
as social media. 
 
135. Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson submit that cumulatively this evidence considered in 
the context of Mr Justice Katju’s evidence of the fragility of the independence of the 
judiciary, it will be impossible for Nirav Modi to be tried fairly in India.  
 
Conclusions on Article 6 – Fair Trial Rights 
 
136. I accept that NMD’s case in India has attracted and no doubt will continue to 
attract significant media attention. NDM is a high-profile business man who made a 
huge success of the Nirav Modi brand in India and worldwide. Much of the press 
reporting to date has been sensationalised and certainly not assisted, in my 
assessment by Judge Katju’s decision to attract media attention following a decision 
to give press commentary the day before giving evidence in these proceedings while 
they are sub judice. That naturally will fan the flames when Indian media have already 
covered political commentary on Judge Thipsay’s evidence in these proceedings. I 
agree with Ms Malcolm and Mr Hearn’s submissions that sensationalist media 
reporting in high profile criminal cases is not unique to India and is not unknown in 
this jurisdiction.  Courts are used to dealing with high profile cases which are subjected 
59 
 
to ill-advised political commentary.  The GOI adduce an affidavit from the Joint 
Director of the CBI Bank Security & Fraud Zone dated 12th August 2020  [ v 16 / Tab 
1] exhibiting a letter from the Solicitor General of India, in which the Solicitor General 
makes the following observation “There are a large number of criminal cases being 
tried in this country with respect to which various leaders across the political 
spectrum and other person  in public life express their views. However, Indian 
judiciary, while adjudicating on a particular case, remains untouched, unmoved and 
unaffected. When every accused, including the “requested person” would have all 
remedies available under the detailed provisions of the Code of Criminal procedure 
[which ensures protection of rights of every accused of neutrality, impartiality and 
objectivity of a criminal trial]”.  
 
137. Equally, given the allegations Nirav Modi faces, namely allegations of defrauding a 
State-owned bank of significant sums of money, it comes of no surprise that the case 
has garnered political interest and some commentary. However, having considered 
the transcript of the briefing given by Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, it is clear in 
my view that it was a press conference given in a purely political context, albeit as the 
Minister of Justice, in the context of the BJP Party making political commentary about 
the Congress Party. That in turn generated significant commentary within the media 
and in social media. It was commentary which Justice Thipsay also was interviewed 
about in India after he gave evidence.  
 
138. Albeit, some political commentary could be described as ill-advised, there is 
nothing in the volumes of media, broadcasting or social media links that have been 
referred to me in the voluminous defense bundles that gives any indication that 
politicians are trying to influence the outcome of any trial, let alone NDM’s trial or 
that the trial process itself would be susceptible to such influence. I reject any 
submission that the GOI have deliberately engineered a media onslaught. I attach little 
weight to Justice Katju’s expert opinion.  
 
139. Despite having been a former Supreme Court judge in India until his 
retirement in 2011 his evidence was in my assessment less than objective and reliable. 
His evidence in Court appeared tinged with resentment towards former senior judicial 
colleagues. It had hallmarks of an outspoken critic with his own personal agenda.  I 
found his evidence and behaviour in engaging the media the day before giving 
60 
 
evidence to be questionable for someone who served the Indian Judiciary at such a 
high level appointed to guard and protect the rule of law.   
 
140. Despite making commentary about the fairness of any trial process in India, 
he accepted on a number of occasions in cross-examination that he had not considered 
the evidence and it is evident from his report he certainly had not considered the full 
requests from the GOI.  He made bold assertions about corruption across the judiciary 
in India (including former Chief Justices) and that the Supreme Court had 
surrendered itself to the executive.  Of note, despite being critical of a former Chief 
Justice passing a verdict in a Supreme Court case in exchange for a nomination to the 
upper house of Parliament in India on his retirement on a quid pro quo basis, 
suggesting collusion and corruption, Justice Katju himself secured appointment by 
the Government to Chairman of the Press Council of India following his own 
retirement.  
 
141. Despite being highly critical of the “trial by media” and its impact on NDM’s case, he 
took the astonishing decision to brief journalists in relation to the evidence he was 
giving in these proceedings, creating his own media storm and adding to the 
heightened media interest to date.  
 
142. I attach limited weight to the statements of Mr Guha [ v K] ] or Mr Sharma [ v 
L] that the Indian Courts have become increasingly politicised. Their reports are 
drawn from media articles and anonymous third-party sources. The fact Justice Katju 
endorses these reports gives no further credence to their contents.  
 
143.Submission that NDM will be unable to secure any witnesses due to fears of the 
Indian authorities or the Indian media. That conflicts with the statements obtained by 
the defense in these proceedings from a significant number of witnesses to evidence 
to alternative narrative to the prima facie case challenges.  
 
144. As Ms Malcolm and Mr Hearn correctly remind me in their final written 
submissions, of the observations made by the Solicitor General of India. India is 
governed by it written constitution which has at its core the fundamental principle of 
the independence of the judiciary by virtue of the separation of powers between 
judiciary, the executive and the legislature. There is no cogent or reliable evidence that 
61 
 
the judiciary in India are no longer independent, or capable of managing a fair trial 
even where it is a high-profile fraud with significant media interest.  
 
145.  There is no evidence which allows me to find that if extradited NDM is at real risk of 
suffering a flagrant denial of justice.  The argument in relation to Article 6 fails. 
 
Article 3 and Section 91 
 
146. These challenges are separate but also inextricably interlinked due to a 
deterioration in NDM’s mental health since he was remanded in custody in HMP 
Wandsworth in these proceedings and therefore I intend to deal with the evidence and 
submissions together, before drawing my conclusions and findings on the respective 
challenges.   
 
147. The parties are also agreed on the legal framework in relation to Article 3.  
 
148. The legal test under Article 3 in extradition cases is well known; extradition 
will be prohibited if there are substantial grounds for believing that there is a real risk 
of treatment which violates Article 3, i.e. treatment which amounts to torture or 
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment:  Chahal v. United Kingdom (1996) 
23 EHRR 413, Soering v. United Kingdom ( 1989) 11 EHRR 439; R (Ullah) v. Special 
Adjudicator [2004] 2 AC 323. The prohibition is in absolute terms and therefore “its 
guarantees apply irrespective of the reprehensible nature of the conduct of the 
person in question”: Aswat v. United Kingdom (2014) 58 EHRR1. There is no 
threshold for ‘flagrancy’  
 
149. The burden on the defence is less than on the balance of probabilities but the 
risk must be more than fanciful.  In Elashmawy v Court of Brescia, Italy [2015] 
EWHC 28 (Admin) Lord Justice Aikens said that “in general, a very strong case is 
required to make good a violation of Article 3.  The test is a stringent one and not 
very easy to satisfy”.  The case underlines the importance of making findings about 
the actual conditions and what their effect will be on the particular RP.  
 
62 
 
150.  In the extradition context, where prison conditions are in issue, the general 
principles which apply have been summarized by the High Court in Elashmawy and 
Riva v. Italy [2015] EWHC 28 (Admin) at para 49. 
 
151. In so far as overcrowding is concerned, the Grand Chamber in Mursic v. Croatia 
(2017) 65 EHRR 1 held that “the standard predominant in its caselaw of 3m2 of floor 
surface per detainee in multi-occupation accommodation [is] the relevant minimum 
standard under article 3 of the Convention [ …] When personal space available to a 
detainee falls below 3m2 of floor space in multi-occupancy accommodation in prions, 
the lack of personal space is considered so severe that a strong presumption of a 
violation of art.3 arises. The burden of proof is on the respondent Government which 
could, however, rebut that presumption by demonstrating that there were factors 
capable of adequately compensating for the scarce allocation of personal space”. The 
Grand Chamber’s analysis in Mursic has since been adopted by the High Court in 
Grecu and Bagarea v. Romania [2017] EWHC 1427 (Admin). 
 
152. Where an individual requires specific medical care and or treatment, then there must 
be a particular focus on, and examination of, the medical facilities available to those 
in custody in the receiving state; see USA v. Dewani [2014] EWHC 152 (Admin), 
Aswat v. UK ( 2014) 58 EHRR 1; and R ( Aswat) v. SSHD [2014] EWHC 1216 (admin). 
 
153. In a case where an assurance is given by a foreign state, the Court is required to 
consider the eleven “Othman factors” when assessing the reliability of an assurance, 
which ultimately all go to the question of whether the foreign state can be trusted: 
Othman v. UK (2012) 55 EHRR 1. Notwithstanding that assurances can, in principle, 
be deployed as a mechanism to support a foreign extradition request, they are not a 
panacea, and ay assurances fall to be considered against a broader canvas.  
 
154. The evidence that this court has had to consider in detail is in relation to the 
assurances received that that NDM will be held not just at Arthur Road prison in 
Mumbai but in a particular cell in that prison, Barrack No. 12. 
 
155. In relation to s.91, the legal framework is as follows: 
 
 
63 
 
Section 91 (‘Physical or mental condition’) of the 2003 Act provides: 
 
a. This section applies at any time in the extradition hearing if it 
appears to the judge that the conditions in subsection (2) is satisfied. 
b. The condition is that the physical or mental condition of the 
person is such that it would be unjust or oppressive to extradite him.  
c. The judge must (a) order the person’s discharge, or (b) adjourn the 
extradition hearing until it appears to him that the condition in 
subsection(2) is no longer satisfied.  
 
156. In Dewani (no 1) v. South Africa [ 2012] EWHC 842 (Admin) at [73]: 
 
“ In our view, the words in s.91 and s.25 set out the relevant test and little help 
is gained by reference to the facts of other cases. We would add it is not likely 
to be helpful to refer a court to observations that the threshold is high or that 
the graver the charge the higher the bar, as this inevitably risks taking the 
eye of the parties and of the court off the statutory test by drawing the court 
into the consideration of the facts of other cases. The term “unjust or 
oppressive” requires regard to be had to all the relevant circumstances, 
including the fact that extradition is ordinarily likely to cause stress and 
hardship; neither of those is sufficient. It is not necessary to enumerate these 
circumstances, as they will inevitably vary from case to case as the decisions 
listed in paragraph 72 demonstrate. We would observe that the citation of 
decisions that do no more than restate the test under s.91 or apply the tests to 
facts is strongly to be discouraged”. 
 
157. What is unjust or oppressive is a fact specific assessment.  
 
158. Where there is no question but that the defendant is unfit to stand trial then it 
will be unjust or oppressive to extradite him. See R(Warren) v. SSHD [2003] EWHC 
1177; United States of America v. Tolman [2008] 3 All ER 150, Lynch v. High Court 
in Dublin [2010] EWHC 109. 
 
159. Generally, the Court should consider the matter “in the round” as Lord Thomas PQBD 
held in Republic of South Africa v. Dewani (no2) [2014] 1 WLR 3220: 
64 
 
 
“ We therefore accept….that the breadth of the factors to be considered under 
s.91 include looking at the question of whether it was unjust or oppressive to 
extradite the person at the time the request was being considered as well as 
looking forward to what might happen in the proceedings in South Africa if 
he was extradited. We must take into account all such matters, including 
consequences to the requested person’s state of health and age. We accept that 
this entails a court taking into account the question as to whether ordering 
extradition would make the person’s extradition worse and whether there are 
sufficient safeguards in place in the requesting state. 
 
We do not, however, accept that there are any hard and fast rules; that would 
be inconsistent with the position that each case must be specifically examined 
by reference to its facts and circumstances.  The only situation in which a 
court would most probably say it would be oppressive and unjust to return 
him is where it is clear that he would be found by the court in the requesting 
state to be unfit to plead. “ 
 
Evidence from the GOI 
 
160. I have received the following assurance from the GOI. It is dated the 8th June 
2019 from the Ministry of Home Affairs [ v 6 / Tab 4]. It assures that in the event of 
his extradition, Nirav Modi will be held at Barrack No 12, Arthur Road Jail. The 
assurance is accompanied by a document entitled “The detailed legal and factual 
framework to show how the terms of the assurance would be delivered in practice”.  
 
161. The letter explains that the RP will have a minimum of 3m square of personal space 
not including the furniture throughout detention (pre-trial, and post-trial, if 
convicted).  He will be provided with a clean thick coating mat, pillow, sheet and 
blanket.  A metal frame/wooden bed can be provided on medical grounds.  Adequate 
light and ventilation and storage of personal belongings is also available.  He will have 
“sufficient” access to clean drinking water each day and ‘adequate’ medical facilities 
are available 24 hours a day.  He will have access to ‘adequate’ toilet and washing 
facilities each day and be allowed out for exercise for more than one hour a day.  He 
will receive ‘adequate’ food.   
65 
 
 
162. Paragraph 4 of the letter of assurance makes it clear that the assurance is a 
sovereign assurance made by the Government of India in consultation with the State 
Government concerned.   
 
163. The Government confirm in paragraph 5 that they had furnished a similar 
assurance in respect of the extradition of Mr Vijay Vittal Mallya and NDM would be 
accommodated in the same barrack.  
 
164. This is also confirmed in the note where it says the assurances set out in the 
note are factually accurate and capable of being delivered by Barrack no. 12 for the 
duration of NDM’s detention.  The prison authorities are bound by it.  Any complaints 
can be made to the prison administration and also to various other Human Rights 
bodies and the Judiciary 
 
165. In the accompanying note, there is further information provided on subjects 
important to the Court’s assessment under Article 3 ECHR: 
 
i. Overall conditions 
ii. The amount of individual space per inmate 
iii. Material conditions (sleeping arrangements, number of people per area, 
sanitation arrangements, drinking water, food and exercise facilities) 
iv. Security 
v. Violence 
vi. Medical facilities 
 
166.  The accompanying note also provides an assurance of living conditions for 
NDM, if extradited conforming to CPT Standards of Council of Europe or ECHR. 
 
167. It recognises that assertions of overcrowding are often made but says that does not 
apply to Barrack No. 12, Arthur Road Jail.  At paragraph 5 of the note, there is a factual 
description of material conditions in Barrack 12. The barrack measures approximately 
20 ft x 15 ft and has a ceiling which is 20ft high with ceiling fans and tube lighting. It 
has a separate toilet/wash room.  The windows and main door are grilled and provide 
air circulation. There are 2 such cells in Barrack 12. As at June 2019 there are 3 
66 
 
prisoners in cell number 1 and no prisoners in cell number 2. The minimum 3m2  is 
adequately provided for in Barrack 12. 
 
168.  There is more detail on the maintenance and cleaning of Barrack No. 12 
including provision of hygiene and cleaning products, the pest control teams visit 
Barrack 12 once a week and fumigate the barrack to keep it free of mosquitoes and it 
says that access to drinking water is at will.   
 
169. Daylight is provided by the two grilled windows and one grilled door both 
facing a passage which itself receives natural light throughout the day.  There is 
adequate artificial lighting and that is described as being “well suited for reading 
purposes”.  Ventilation is provided by the three ceiling fans in the cell and in the 
passage.   
 
170.In terms of sanitary facilities, there is a flushing lavatory and a wash basin with 
constant supply of water.  There is a door between the cell and the bathroom.   
 
171. There is a high level of security at the entrance to No. 12 and CCTV cameras monitor 
24 hours a day.  A prison officer and a guard are on duty 24 hours a day and the 
inmates in the Barrack do not mix with other prisoners.  There has been no violence 
in Barrack No. 12 because of the nature of the facilities and the type of prisoners held 
there.   
 
172. Exercise takes place between 7am to noon and 3pm to 5.30pm in the outdoor “open 
sky” yard area of Barrack 12 which is 15 feet x 40feet. During inclement weather and 
monsoons season, there is room for exercise in the passage and hallway area.  Board 
games are made available to the prisoners as well as outdoor badminton. 
 
173.  Inmates can do yoga and meditation sessions. Inmates can use a library but also can 
bring in their own reading matter.  Daily newspapers are available too in English and 
local languages.   A television showing terrestrial channels is in the Barrack.  Family 
visits are one a week for 20 minutes. Lawyer meetings are permitted daily except 
Sundays and public holidays. Video conference facilities are also available.  
 
67 
 
174. In terms of medical assistance, medical facilities are available 24 hours a day 7 day a 
week. Four medical officers along with four nursing orderlies and two pharmacists are 
available, there is a prison hospital with 20 beds and outside experts come in when 
required.  There is a public hospital within 3 km of the prison.   
 
175. Meals are provided three times a day and the prison will try and accommodate special 
dietary considerations.  Home food is allowed with the permission of the court.  A 
canteen provides toiletries, mineral water and snacks, and prisoners are given a fresh 
supply of bananas daily.  
 
176. Paragraph three of the letter confirms that the conditions set out in the note are 
accurate and capable of being delivered at Barrack No 12 for the duration of Nirav 
Modi’s detention including in the event of conviction. It states “the prison authorities 
are bound by this assurance provided for Nirav Modi and there is no discretion 
whereby any other administrative, local government or judicial authority would 
override it as per the law of the land”.  
 
177. The further information provided in the note confirms that the minimum standards 
are monitored by officers of the Prison Authority (Prison Administration, 
Maharashta) , NHRC (National Human Rights Commission), SHRC ( State Human 
Rights Commission) and by the judiciary. The monitoring authorities visit the jail 
regularly and meets detainees. Detainees can complain to any of the relevant 
monitoring bodies. It further sets out the training of police and prison staff in relation 
to the unlawfulness of infliction of physical or psychological mistreatment.  
 
178. I also received a further letter of assurance from the GOI dated 11th September 2020 
[ v 16 / Tab 11]. This is from the Ministry of Home Affairs and the same Joint Secretary 
who provided the earlier assurance. The letter is described as a continuation of the 
assurance provided in June 2019 and confirms that if extradited Nirav Modi “may 
receive any relevant and necessary treatment from a private doctor or mental health 
expert of his choice, including treatment or counselling from psychiatrist, 
psychologist, as required and paid for him, including coming into prison / over 
video-link for consultations”.  
 
68 
 
179. Finally, I was provided with a very useful video of Barrack No. 12 inside and out.  The 
video was shot in in natural light in on 20th August 2020 updating an earlier similar 
video which had been served in the earlier part of the extradition proceedings and the 
one used in the case of Mallya.  The last video is filmed on an overcast and damp day. 
Barrack 12 is introduced as the area of the prison for high profile offenders. It is 
apparent it is a well-guarded structure. It has a steel structure above with 20-foot 
clearance from the ground to ensure free passage of air and light.  The video shows the 
approach to the cell and the Barrack itself. The cell is 300 square feet and the 
measurements described on the video mirror those in the assurance dated 8th June 
2019.  The cell looks well decorated and very clean, albeit unoccupied. It has a flat 
screen LED television screen high on the inside wall and the walls themselves are 
painted white. The high ceilings have florescent lighting and ceiling fans. The video 
mirrors the description within the assurance including the ventilation. Despite the 
overcast day, there appears to be plenty of natural light entering the cell augmented 
by the florescent lighting in the ceiling. The cell has a large clean en-suite bathroom 
with shower, sink and flush toilet. Dignity and modesty is protected by a bathroom 
door and curtain.  The bathroom facilities themselves are in fact better than those 
described in the supporting note to the assurance, which does not mention the shower 
facilities.  It showed a clean, large, well-appointed cell which had no prisoners or 
furniture in it.  It shows where a detainee can exercise. 
 
Defence Evidence 
 
180. As I have already mentioned, the documentary evidence and exhibits in this 
case is voluminous and the defence evidence in relation to the challenges under Article 
3 and s.91 is equally extensive. I mean no disrespect to Ms Montgomery and Mr 
Watson in not summarising the entirety of the evidence they rely on but that does not 
mean I have not considered it. I will refer to evidence which I have considered is most 
probative in making my findings in relation to Article 3 and the case specific 
assessment I must undertake in relation to s.91.  
 
181.  I heard expert evidence from, Dr Forrester. He alone had prepared an initial 
psychiatric report dated 15th December 2019 and thereafter addendum reports dated 
4th March 2020, 27th April 2020, 27th August 2020 and 3rd October 2020. [ v I/ Tab 
21] [ v J / Tab 54 & 55] [ v O Tab 4 & 5] 
69 
 
 
182. I also heard live evidence from Dr Alan Mitchel who had prepared his first 
report, a supplementary report and a further report.[ v  I & J ], [ v O / Tab 1 & Tab 10]   
 
183. I also heard live evidence Professor Coker by live link [ v O / Tab 2] .  
 
184. In relation to NDM’s mental health, Dr Forrester’s most recent report dated 
23rd August 2020 is in my view the most relevant. He confirmed the contents of that 
report in his live evidence. Dr Forrester is an experienced consultant forensic 
psychiatrist.  In his opinion, NDM meets the criteria for a diagnosis of “recurrent 
depressive disorder, current episode severe, without psychotic symptoms”. This 
diagnosis is not challenged by the GOI.  
 
185. At the beginning of his report in his summary of conclusions he states: 
 
2.1  In my opinion, there has been a further deterioration in Nirav Modi’s 
mental state since I last saw him, such that he now meets the criteria 
for a diagnosis of recurrent depressive disorder, current episode 
severe, without psychotic symptoms. 
2.2.  In my opinion, it is likely that the restricted prison conditions 
associated with lockdown, as a consequence of the Covid-19 global 
pandemic, have played a significant role in causing his worsening 
mood. 
 
186. In relation to suicide risk Dr Forrester states: 
 
9.5 It is also significant that he presents with persisting suicide ideas, and 
with some suicidal intentions. Although the latter were not immediate 
in nature when I interviewed him, their emergence does reflect a 
further deterioration in his overall presentation. 
 
9.6.  In my opinion, Nirav Modi should now be considered a substantial 
(meaning high) albeit not immediate, risk of suicide. I take this view 
because he has a history of recurrent depression, because I have 
assessed his current risk of depression as sever, because there is 
70 
 
mounting evidence of progressive deterioration during time in 
custody at HMP Wandsworth, with a further deterioration over the 4 
week period before I saw him, because he has a family history of 
suicide, and because he has reported both suicidal ideas and intentions 
(albeit the latter were not immediate in their nature when I 
interviewed him) . 
 
187. In terms of treatment recommendations, Dr Forrester’s opinion is that NDM requires 
regular psychiatric support to review and adjust his medication as required, along with 
regular psychological support, to work within a cognitive behavioural model 
framework to assist in treating the prominent negative cognitions be currently 
experiences as part of a depressive illness. Dr Forrester explains that having reviewed 
NDM’s medical records from the prison he is not receiving the care and treatment he 
requires. There still has not been a full or comprehensive assessment of his mental 
health although he is receiving anti-depressant medication, there is little evidence of 
joint care provision and has not been receiving psychological treatment. 
 
188. Dr Forrester’s opinion is that NDM now meets the criteria for detention under 
Part III Mental Health Act 1983. Section 48 of the Act deals with the removal to 
hospital of prisoners in cases where the person is suffering from a mental disorder of 
a nature and degree which make it appropriate for him to be detained in a hospital for 
medical treatment. Further, Dr Forrester concludes at para 9.17 of his report that “In 
my opinion, he ….should be considered fit to plea at the present time. However, his 
condition has deteriorated during his time in custody at HMP Wandsworth, with a 
further dip during the 4 weeks before I assessment to prepare this report. With 
further deterioration, and in particular with further worsening of his attention, 
concentration and general ability to think, there is a risk he could become unfit to 
plead in the future”.  
 
189. In his live evidence, in answer to supplementary questions in chief, Dr 
Forrester I noted in particular that he stated it was “Reasonable to conclude the 
regime in the prison is causative of the decline in his presentation” and that “I think 
he merits hospital transfer for medical treatment. Although I do note that Dr. 
Forrester added the following observation “Having said that, a number of people 
which severe depression can be treated in the in the community.” 
71 
 
 
190. In cross examination he also stated that “I would be prepared to discuss his 
treatment with a practitioner in India”. 
 
191. At Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson submit, the central issue under Article 3 and s.91 
of the Act is whether, in light of this unchallenged diagnosis, the detention conditions 
which would await Mr Modi in India are capable of meeting his current treatment and 
care needs, and whether they are capable of responding appropriately to the 
anticipated further deterioration in his mental health.  
 
192. Assurances have been provided by the GOI as detailed above. It appears to be 
an agreed position that were it proposed that NDM were to be held in the general 
population at Arthur Road Prison in Mumbai ( Mumbai Central Prison) , Article 3 
would no doubt prohibit his surrender by virtue of the conditions in Indian prisons 
generally falling below acceptable international standards. Therefore, the central issue 
is whether the assurances provided by the GOI are sufficient to ensure both 
compatibility with Article 3 and that his extradition will not be “oppressive” under s.91 
EA 2003. 
 
193. I received reports from Dr Mitchell dated 8th January 2020 and 21st July 2020 
and he gave live evidence before me at the extradition hearing.  
 
194. Dr Mitchell is a licensed practitioner, was previously the Head of Healthcare 
within the Scottish Prison Service and is currently Chair of the Independent Prison 
Monitoring Advisory Group for HM Chief Inspector of Prisons in Scotland and is 
regulatory engaged by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture (CPT) 
to carry out prison inspections. I recognise that Dr Mitchell is regularly engaged as an 
expert witness on prison conditions in extradition proceedings before Westminster 
Magistrates’; Court. In preparing his reports, he never met NDM. He has relied on the 
open source material as well as other documents provided by Mr Modi’s solicitors 
together with the video of Barrack 12 provided by GOI.  He has never visited or 
inspected Mumbai Central Prison or Barrack 12 but in 2015 he had experience of 
inspecting a prison in West Bengal. A request was made by Dr Mitchell to inspect 
Barrack 12 and Mumbai Central Prison on 26th June 2019 as part of these extradition 
proceedings but the CPS responded that they would not seek permission from the GOI. 
72 
 
 
195. Exhibited to Dr Mitchell’s reports is significant [ Volume I, J and O] open source 
material relating to Mumbai Central Prison which depicts a picture of longstanding 
problems of gross overcrowding, conditions of detention being below ECHR standards 
and lack of rudimentary medical care for its inmates.  
 
196. Dr Mitchell explains the structural deficiencies in India including his concern 
over the absence of any Independent monitoring system and that as India has not 
ratified the UN Convention Against Torture (UNCAT) there is no independent 
monitoring of its prisons by any international body and there is no national prisons 
inspectorate. In summary his opinions are that prisons are grossly overcrowded. The 
physical state of prisons suffers from under-investment. Staff shortages across prison 
estate, which he says are acute at Arthur Road notwithstanding the judicial inquiry 
ordered by the Bombay High Court in 2015. His overall opinion is that the Indian 
prison estate struggles to provide proper medical and psychological care for inmates. 
In 2015 he visited Allipore Central Correctional Home and he concluded that the 
conditions were “exceptionally bad and quite unlike anything I had seen in my visits 
for the CPT”.   
 
197. Dr Mitchell was also referred to some evidence adduced by the defense by way of a 
letter from Sajasl Yadav [ v J / Tab 43]. He was not called to give evidence on behalf 
of Mr Modi. He is a practicing advocate with the Bar Council of Maharasht. He has 
represented clients who were lodged in Arthur Road Jail including on the ground floor 
cells in Barrack 12. He last visited Barrack 12 in June 2018. His description of the unit 
is “unbearably hot in the summer months” and vermin are visible and have free run 
of the cells. There is extensive dust and noise pollution from the adjoining slum area. 
There is insufficient natural light. Facilities to communicate with lawyers is poor. 
There is no proper pharmacy and where medical problems cannot be treated by the 
prison doctor, hospital attendance is difficult and delays obtaining hospital care can 
be life threatening. He disputes there is clean drinking water supply and although the 
assurances refer to hospitals nearby, he states they are referring to the Sir J.J. Group 
of hospitals which are overcrowded and unhygienic.  
 
198. In answer to supplementary questions in chief, Dr Mitchell agreed he has 
viewed the latest video of Barrack 12 provided by GOI. In relation to Sadal Yadav’s 
73 
 
description of conditions with Barrack 12, Dr Mitchell was critical of the video footage 
as the problems of noise, pollution, heat and damp and an unhealthy environment is 
not assessable from the video footage.  
 
199. Dr Mitchell however confirmed that there is no overcrowding issue in Barrack 
12, he was satisfied it is Mursic compliant in terms of CPT physical space. However, 
his concern is in relation to overcrowding elsewhere in the prison as that affects the 
ability of prison staff to do their job. His main concern relates to the sufficiency of staff 
and healthcare staff to maintain a safe and healthy environment for NDM. 
 
200. In addition, he expressed concern that being potentially alone in Barrack 12 
would be particularly harmful equivalent to solitary confinement is harmful in view of 
Nirav Modi’s severe depressive illness. In relation mental health serves in 
Maharashtra’s jail, Dr Mitchell stated that whether a psychiatrist is resident or not is 
irrelevant. What is important is access to in reach psychiatric services- what is 
important is access to psychiatric provision. Dr Mitchell referred to the Visitors Book 
at Arthur Road on 9th July 2019. In his view 3400 inmates cannot be managed by 4 
Doctors. 80 staff for over 3000 inmates is clearly insufficient in his view and 4 doctors 
is equally insufficient. He concluded his evidence in chief by saying that from the 
material he had seen from Arthur Road – “I do not believe Nirav Modi would be 
appropriately cared for by the healthcare infrastructure at Arthur Road Jail. In 
terms of his detention in Barrack 12 there is provision of his needs and a safe 
environment but not in terms of his mental health and wellbeing”. 
 
201. In cross-examination, Dr Mitchell accept again that in Barrack 12 over 
crowding not an issue. However, he stated again that the GOI had not set out with any 
detail as to how his healthcare needs will be met if he is extradited and held in Barrack 
12 other than saying a doctor is available. “If Nirav Modi was held in solitary 
confinement it would have a negative impact on his mental health and wellbeing”. 
 
202. From the latest video, Dr Mitchell agreed there is a stark difference between 
the new video and the one produced earlier by the GOI. 
 
203. In relation to the risks of the COVID pandemic, Dr Mitchell agreed that the 
GOI have implemented guidelines and protocols to control COVID.  
74 
 
 
204. In relation to the impact of COVID, I received a report from Professor Coker 
and he gave live evidence at the hearing. Professor Coker is a Professor of Public 
Health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and a specialist in 
infectious diseases and epidemiology. He explains that any prison setting is extremely 
susceptible to any communicable disease, especially COVID as they are closed 
congregate settings. In his opinion the high prevalence of the virus in Mumbai, 
especially in the slum areas, necessarily increases the risk of transmission into, and 
then spread within, a prison. Professor Coker’s opinion is that the GOI have provided 
a deficiency of information to provide any reassurance that there are appropriate 
measures in place to prevent an unacceptably high risk to inmates. Prisons are 
extremely susceptible and Barrack 12’s relative isolation gives no proper basis for 
confidence that any inmate detained there would not be at risk of contracting COVID. 
In answer to questions in cross-examination he accepted the proposition put to him 
by Ms Malcolm that we are all at risk from COVID and at the time of giving his 
evidence in these proceedings “ we were immunologically naive in terms of COVID” 
. He said the key was reducing the risk and he could not predict what the position 
would be in a year’s time.  
 
205. Ms Mongomery and Mr Watson make extensive submission that in the context 
of this case, given Nirav Modi’s mental health needs, the assurances and the video filed 
by the GOI are simply inadequate and cannot meet the case under either Article 3 or 
s.91.  
 
Conclusions Article 3. 
 
206. In relation to NDM’s mental health it is of note that Dr Forrester’s expert 
opinion is that the current restrictive prison regime at HMP Wandsworth, as a 
consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic has played a “significant role” in the 
deterioration of NDM’s depressive disorder. I recognise that the restrictions within 
our prison estate at present are exceptional as our prison service manages the regime 
to protect prisoners’ health, maintain the security of the prison and protect the health 
of the prison staff. Albeit Dr Forrester expresses an opinion that consequently NDM’s 
heath now meets the criteria for hospital transfer under s.48 Mental Health Act 1983 
he equally qualified this with his statement that “having said that, a number of people 
75 
 
with severe depression can be treated in the community”. Mr Modi’s condition is far 
from unusual. Albeit the risk to suicide in Dr Forrester’s opinion is now assessed as 
“substantial” there is nothing within his reports that signifies that NDM’s mental 
health is such that it removes his capacity to resist the impulse to commit suicide. 
Within his report, it is evident that any suicidal acts would be voluntary. At para 8.27 
of Dr Forrester’s report he asks NDM whether he has suicidal plans. When answering 
in the affirmative, NDM said he “can always get razors” and “I wonder if its better to 
commit suicide rather than be killed”. NDM fears persecution and incarceration in 
India. As Dr Forrester identifies, Nirav Modi’s progressive deterioration is linked to 
the restricted prison regime on remand at HMP Wandsworth and although he has 
expressed suicidal ideas, Dr Forrester confirms in several places in his report that 
suicidal intentions are not immediate in nature.  
 
207. With regard to Nirav Modi’s fitness to plead, he is regarded as fit to plead at 
the present time. Albeit Dr Forrester recognises that if extradition is ordered and he 
is removed to India, he considers it likely NDM’s condition would deteriorate. 
However, Dr Forrester goes no further than saying he “could become unfit to plead in 
the future”. That is not in any way sufficient for me to be satisfied the he would ( my 
emphasis)  be found by the courts in India to be unfit to plead such that it would be 
oppressive as stated in Dewani (no2) [2014] (supra). 
 
208. GOI has provided comprehensive assurances in relation to the conditions 
NDM will be detained in Barrack 12, supported by a video taken in August 2020, which 
I place great weight on as being the best evidence before me to assess the conditions 
in Barrack 12. I reject the submission that the video does not materially assist this 
Court’s assessment of the actual conditions within Barrack 12. I find that it is entirely 
corroborative of the conditions set out in the GOI’s assurance and in fact goes further 
as the video shows better sanitary and washing facilities than described in the 
accompanying note to the assurance dated 8th June 2019.   
 
209.  The evidence from Mr Yadav, the Indian lawyer who describes the conditions 
he has seen in Barrack 12 are simply not born out on the video evidence. Mr Yadav’s 
evidence is placed before me by way of letters rather than sworn statements, his 
evidence cannot be tested and I place little to no weight on the contents of those letters 
and reject the defense submission that this provides me with direct evidence of the 
76 
 
conditions in Barrack 12. The video taken by GOI of the cell at Barrack 12 and the 
facilities contradicts in every way the descriptions given by Mr Yadav. In any event the 
video was filmed on 20th August 2020. The last time Mr Yadav appears to have visited 
Barrack 12 was in June 2018.  
 
210. There is no overcrowding in Barrack 12, that was conceded by Dr Mitchell who 
said that in terms of overcrowding, Barrack 12 was Mursic compliant. That is where 
NDM will be held, not in any other part of Arthur Road prison.  
 
211. The conditions at Barrack 12 in respect of medical treatment. The GOI confirmed in 
further information that in addition to the prison hospital, a specific ward at JJ 
Hospital, Mumbai is exclusively reserved for Arthur Road inmates. The further 
assurance dated 11th September 2020 provides NDM with the opportunity to receive 
medical care from a private doctor or mental health expert of his choice. Indeed, Dr 
Forrester confirmed he was willing to engage with any medical health professional in 
India to discuss NDM’s treatment requirements.  This letter is a sovereign assurance 
provided by GOI Ministry of Home Affairs extending additional facilities to NDM in 
relation to specific medical treatment to him as a named individual.  Criticism within 
defense submissions and the letters from Mr Yadav that diplomatic assurances 
pertaining to private medical care being at the discretion of the Court is in my view a 
smokescreen. As Ms Malcolm submits, under the Seventh Schedule of the Indian 
Constitution, extradition is a matter solely under the purview of Central Government 
/GOI. As I have already found above, I place little or no reliance on the evidence put 
forward in Mr Yadav’s letters. Suggestions that NDM could not avail himself of private 
medical treatment as he would have no property or money in India simply does not 
bear true in light of the substantial securities which have been offered in the various 
bail application in these proceedings. I find that in accordance with the note 
accompanying the assurances provided to NDM “the prison authorities are bound by 
this assurance provided for Nirav Modi and there is no discretion whereby any other 
administrative, local government or judicial authority would override it as per the 
law of the land”. That statement is compelling evidence of the commitment to comply 
with the terms of the assurance by the GOI.  
 
212.In relation to Professor Coker’s evidence with regard to the impact of COVID-19, the 
pandemic has presented extraordinary challenges across the globe, an evolving 
77 
 
phenomenon with evolving strains and a rapidly evolving and expanding vaccine 
programme across the world including in India. It has affected every country’s prison 
regime and like every country, including the UK reactive and restrictive measures have 
had to be put in place to manage the health or inmates and prison staff alike. The risk 
of Covid-19 outbreaks during a global pandemic within a prison regime cannot be 
discounted as we know from reported outbreaks in our own UK prison population. 
However, this is not being ignored by the GOI and I am satisfied they have provided a 
comprehensive account of measures taken in their response to Professor Coker’s 
report in Volume 7. 
 
213. The court must consider the Othman criteria (Othman v UK (2012) 55 EHRR 1) when 
looking at an assurance provided by a foreign state.  In this case, I find that the 
assurances are clear, the prison Arthur Road in Mumbai has been identified and the 
cell Barrack No. 12 has been specified.  Various other assurances have been made in 
relation to the NDM’s living conditions in Barrack No. 12 if he is returned and his 
ability to obtain medical treatment.  The assurances have been disclosed to the court 
and I find that the various representatives which have given the assurances will bind 
the GOI.  The assurances set out the monitoring arrangements through the NHRC, 
Maharashtra State Human Rights Commissions and judicial officers. The GOI will 
know that if the assurances are broken, they will be very publicly broken in light of 
NDM’s high profile.  Just as Senior District Judge (Magistrates’ Court) Arbuthnot (as 
she then was) observed in her judgment in Mallya, I have no doubt NDM’s lawyers 
would report any breach of assurance to this court as well as the Courts in India. That 
in turn would create “a perfect storm of publicity” as the Senior District Judge 
concluded in Mallya. That conclusion is equally apposite in this case.  Extradition 
arrangements work on the basis of trust and any failure to abide by the assurances 
given by the GOI in NDM’s case would doubtlessly affect the trust between this court 
and the GOI.  I have no reason at all to think that the GOI would want to breach that 
trust by not upholding their assurances provided in support of this extradition 
request.  
 
214. I am also required to consider the length and strength of relations between the 
India and this country which are NDM complaining to his lawyers, to the prison 
authorities, to the courts or to national or state Human Rights Commissions.  I have 
no doubt that Courts would ensure these assurances are upheld.  There is no reliable 
78 
 
evidence of the GOI breaching their solemn diplomatic assurance. Examples provided 
in the defense bundle of conditions other extraditees have been held in were cases 
where detailed sovereign assurances were not provided.   
 
215. Albeit I accept Dr Mitchell is an experienced prison inspector, he has not visited 
Barrack 12, or Arthur Road jail. In light of the great weight I have placed on the 
assurances provided in this case by the GOI and the “best evidence” being the video 
evidence, I reject Dr Mitchells reservations and concerns. There is no doubt in my 
mind that the conditions NDM will experience in Barrack 12 are far less restrictive and 
far more spacious than the current regime he is being held in within the prison estate 
in our own jurisdiction.  
 
216. Having considered the Othman criteria, I accept the assurances given by the 
GOI. 
 
217. Having accepted the assurances in principle, I turn next to the prison conditions 
which in the light of the assurances will apply in this case.  I find that NDM will be 
held in Barrack No. 12 of Arthur Road in Mumbai.  As detailed above I find that the 
video of the cell and the approach to the cell is the best evidence and an accurate 
portrayal of the conditions in those cells.  The cell is large, far larger than the 3m2 
minimum set out in Mursic.   The cell is clean and well decorated.  It has a very high 
ceiling, adequate natural light from grilled windows, ceiling fans and strip lighting.  
 
218. I find that NDM will be provided with a thick cotton mat, a pillow, sheet and 
blanket.  He will be able to apply on medical grounds to have a bed.  He will have 
access to drinking water “at will”. He will have access to the bathroom which is 
attached to the cell and appears to be clean and is newly decorated.  It has a lavatory; 
shower and the basin has a constant supply of water.  He will be able to wash each day 
and will receive adequate food.  He may be allowed food from home if the court 
permits.  
 
219. There is sufficient security as corroborated on the video. A prison officer and 
a guard are on duty 24 hours a day and the inmates of Barrack No. 12 do not mix with 
other prisoners.  I accept further information from the GOI that there has never been 
any violence in the cell because of the high-profile nature of the prisoners held there.   
79 
 
 
220. I accept that medical staff resources would be stretched within Mumbai 
Central Jail but there is in place an assurance that NDM can consult his own private 
doctors and psychiatrists. It is an assurance which this court considers to be an 
important one in all the circumstances.  I equally accept that there are hospitals very 
close to the prison were NDM to require hospitalisation.   
 
221.I would expect that for medical reasons the prison should allow Nirav Modi a bed and 
I have no doubt the Court will look sympathetically at any request for home cooked 
food. That together will access to medical treatment of his choice and the undertaking 
given by Dr Forrester that he would discuss recommended treatment with any Indian 
doctor or psychiatrist engaged to look after Nirav Modi, all these threads when pulled 
together would enable him to face the proceedings in India in a healthier state. 
 
222. The test for this court to apply is whether there are substantial grounds for 
believing that the RP, if extradited, would face a real risk of being subjected to 
treatment contrary to Article 3.  Having accepted the assurances and considered the 
conditions proposed by the GOI, I find there are no grounds at all for believing that 
NDM would face a real risk of being subjected to treatment breaching Article 3.  The 
argument fails. 
 
Conclusions. S.91 EA 2003 
 
223. In relation to the submissions that NDM’s mental health is now such that it 
would be unjust or oppressive to extradite him, that challenge also fails. As I have 
determined above, there is no determinative evidence such that it is clear NDM would 
be found by the Court in India to be unfit to plead. Dr Forrester puts it no higher the 
“could” if there was to be any further deterioration in Nirav Modi’s health. To date 
such deterioration has been significantly attributed by Dr Forrester to the restrictive 
regime in HMP Wandsworth. However, the regime awaiting NDM in Barrack 12, when 
you consider the video, would I have no doubt, be an amelioration of his current 
conditions of detention, especially when considered alongside the extensive 
assurances provided by the GOI.  
 
80 
 
224. Although Dr Forrester within his report from October 2020 describes a need 
for “medication, high intensity psychological interventions, electroconvulsive 
therapy, crisis service, combined treatments, multi- professional and inpatient care” 
in view of the assurances provided by the GOI I do not consider it necessary for the 
GOI to be required to provide further detailed explanation of the care and treatment 
plan which will be in place for NDM in custody at Barrack 12.  
 
225. In relation to suicide risk, when considering the criteria in Turner v. 
Government of the United States of America [2012] EWHC 2426 (Admin) the 
evidence presented does not in my assessment meet the high threshold to satisfy me 
that NDM’s mental health condition is such that it would be unjust or oppressive to 
extradite him. Albeit risk of suicide is assessed as high, Dr Forrester confirms in his 
report that there are no immediate suicidal intentions.  NDM’s mental condition is not 
such that it removes his capacity to resist the impulse to commit suicide. It is clear 
from Dr Forrester’s report that while in HMP Wandsworth the ACCT provisions can 
be deployed to safeguard against risk and having considered the assurances provided 
by GOI it is clear the Indian authorities have capacity to cope properly with NDM’s 
mental health and suicidal risk, bolstered by NDM being able to access private 
treatments from clinicians. I also weigh up the strong public interest in giving effect 
to extradition treaty obligations.   
 
226. I reject the s.91 challenge.  
 
Procedural Requirements & Decision  
 
227. Section 78(2) of the Extradition Act 2003 requires me to decide whether the 
documents sent to me by the Secretary of State include: 
 
a) The extradition request and certificate issued by the Secretary of State.  
[s.78(2)(a)]: 
 
All three requests and certificates have been sent to the Court by the Home Office. 
 
b) Particulars of the person whose extradition is requested. [s.78 (2)(b)]: 
 
81 
 
The Requests contain details of NDM’s identity, including date of birth. No issue 
is taken by Ms Montgomery and Mr Watson with this requirement.  
 
c) Particulars of the offences are specified in the request [ s.78(2)(c) ]: 
 
Detailed particulars of the offences have been provided in the requests. 
 
d) In the case of a person accused of an offence, a warrant for his arrest issued in the 
category 2 territory [ s.78(2)(d)]: 
 
A “non-Bailable arrest warrant” has been provided in relation to the CBI 
extradition request [ page 266] 
A “non-bailable arrest warrant has been provided in relation to the ED extradition 
request [ page 398] 
A “non-bailable arrest warrant” has been provided in relation to the 
supplementary CBI request issued by the Court of Sessions for Greater Mumbai 
dated 2nd March 2020 and has been provided. 
 
228. Therefore, I am satisfied that the requests satisfy the requirements of s.78(2) 
EA 2003.  
 
229. S.78(4) EA 2003 then requires: 
 
(a)the person appearing or brought before him is the person whose 
extradition is requested; 
(b)the offence specified in the request is an extradition offence; 
(c)copies of the documents sent to the judge by the Secretary of State have  
been served on the person. 
 
230. No challenge is raised in relation to s.78(4)(a ) or (c) and I am satisfied they 
are complied with. For the reasons set out above in paragraphs 94 –111 above, I am 
satisfied the offences specified in the requests are extradition offences.S. 137(3) EA 
2003 is satisfied. I therefore proceed under s.79 EA 2003.  
 
231. I must then decide whether the NDM’s extradition to India is barred by reason of: 
82 
 
a. the rule against double jeopardy; 
b. extraneous considerations; 
c. the passage of time; 
d. hostage taking considerations; 
e. forum. 
 
232. No bars to extradition are raised and I find there are none. As NDM is accused 
of the commissions of the extradition offences but is not alleged to be unlawfully at 
large after conviction of them, I must proceed under s.84 EA 2003. 
 
233. If required to proceed under s.84 EA 2003 I must decide whether there is 
evidence which would be sufficient to make a case requiring an answer by NDM if the 
proceedings were the summary trial of an information against him. In accordance with 
my reasons and findings at paragraphs 69 – 73 and 92 – 93 above, I am satisfied there 
is a prima facie case. I therefore proceed under s.87 EA 2003. 
 
234. I must decide whether the NDM’s extradition would be compatible with the 
Convention rights within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998. The challenge 
raised on behalf of the NDM is that his extradition would not be compatible with his 
Article 3 and 6 Rights. In accordance with my conclusions at paragraphs 136– 143   
(Article 6) and 206 - 222 (Article 3)  above the challenges raised are rejected.  
 
235. The remaining challenge under s.91 is rejected as per myconclusions at 
paragraphs 223 - 226. No other challenges are raised.  I am satisfied so I am sure that 
the RP’s extradition to India, is compatible with his Convention Rights within the 
meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998. 
 
236. Therefore, in accordance with s.87(3) EA 2003 I am sending this case to the 
Secretary of State for a decision as to whether Nirav Modi is to be extradited. 
 
237. In accordance with the provisions of s.92(2)(a) and (b) EA  2003, I hereby 
notify Nirav Modi of his right to appeal to the High Court against my decision to send 
the case to the Secretary of State. I also inform him that if he exercises his right of 
appeal, the appeal will not be heard until the Secretary of State has made their 
decision. The appeal can be on a point of law or fact or both (s.103(4) EA 2003). 
83 
 
 
238. Notice of appeal under s.92 EA 2003 must be given in accordance with the 
rules of court before the end of 14 days starting with the day on which the Secretary of 
State informs him under s.100 (1) or (4) EA 2003 of the order that they have made.  
 
 
 
District Judge (Magistrates’ Court) Sam Goozée 
Appropriate Judge 
25th February 2021.